---
title: Asset operations
description:
  This guide covers troubleshooting for asset-specific operations including
  token subscriptions, bond payments, dividend distributions, redemptions, and
  governance voting. You'll learn how to diagnose and resolve issues unique to
  each asset type, with specific attention to how operations integrate with DALP
  lifecycle features like vaults, yield management, and DvP settlement. Use the
  observability stack's compliance metrics panel and transaction dashboards to
  identify which layer is blocking your operation.
pageTitle: Asset-specific troubleshooting
tags:
  [
    troubleshooting,
    assets,
    subscriptions,
    bonds,
    dividends,
    redemptions,
    voting,
  ]
---

## Diagnostic approach for asset operations

When an asset operation fails, the issue typically surfaces at one of three
points: compliance verification (your identity claims don't meet requirements),
timing constraints (you're outside the allowed window), or system state (the
asset isn't ready or properly funded). ATK's observability dashboards surface
these failures immediately, showing you exactly which check rejected your
transaction before gas is consumed.

Start by checking the **compliance metrics panel** in the observability stack.
If a subscription button is greyed out, the dashboard will show which claim
you're missing. If a bond redemption fails, the transaction dashboard reveals
whether the issuer's vault has sufficient reserves. This unified visibility
eliminates the guesswork that plagues fragmented tokenization systems.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    Start(Operation fails or blocked)
    Check1{Check observability<br/>dashboard}
    Compliance(Compliance layer<br/>rejection)
    Timing(Timing window<br/>issue)
    State(System state<br/>problem)
    
    ComplianceCheck[Review required claims<br/>in compliance panel]
    TimingCheck[Verify dates and<br/>redemption windows]
    StateCheck[Check vault funding<br/>and asset status]
    
    ComplianceFix[Obtain missing claims<br/>from compliance team]
    TimingFix[Wait for correct<br/>window or period]
    StateFix[Contact issuer to<br/>fund vault]
    
    Resolve(Operation succeeds)
    
    Start --> Check1
    Check1 --> Compliance
    Check1 --> Timing
    Check1 --> State
    
    Compliance --> ComplianceCheck
    Timing --> TimingCheck
    State --> StateCheck
    
    ComplianceCheck --> ComplianceFix
    TimingCheck --> TimingFix
    StateCheck --> StateFix
    
    ComplianceFix --> Resolve
    TimingFix --> Resolve
    StateFix --> Resolve
    
    style Start fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Check1 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Compliance fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Timing fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style State fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Resolve fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
`}
/>

The diagram above shows your diagnostic path. Every failed operation lands in
one of these three categories, and the observability stack tells you which one
within seconds.

## Subscription failures: when you can't purchase tokens

Subscription problems usually mean either you're not eligible, you're trying to
buy an amount outside the configured limits, or your payment token isn't
approved. The platform's subscription UI disables the purchase button when it
detects these conditions, saving you failed transactions.

### Eligibility verification through OnchainID claims

ATK's compliance-by-design architecture means every security token checks your
OnchainID claims before allowing transfers. Navigate to **Account** → **Eligible
Assets** to see the eligibility matrix. Each row shows an asset and which claims
it requires. Green checkmarks mean you have that claim; red Xs mean you need to
obtain it from the compliance team.

Common claim requirements include KYC verification (CLAIM_TOPIC_KYC), accredited
investor status (CLAIM_TOPIC_ACCREDITED_INVESTOR), and jurisdiction eligibility
(CLAIM_TOPIC_JURISDICTION). If you're missing any required claim, the token
contract will reject your subscription attempt at the smart contract level. This
ex-ante control prevents non-compliant transactions from ever executing, which
is precisely how DALP platforms eliminate the compliance gaps that plague
off-chain verification systems.

Check the **compliance metrics panel** in your observability dashboard. It shows
real-time claim status for your address and flags any claims approaching
expiration. Claims typically expire after 12 months, requiring re-verification.
The dashboard alerts you 30 days before expiration so you can renew without
interrupting your trading ability.

### Subscription limits and offering constraints

Each security token offering configures minimum and maximum subscription
amounts. Attempting to purchase less than the minimum triggers a "Subscription
limit not met" error. Trying to exceed the per-investor maximum gets blocked
with "Subscription limit exceeded." These limits appear on the subscription
details page before you initiate purchase.

Total offering caps also matter. If 95 other investors have already subscribed
for the full offering amount, your subscription attempt will fail with "Offering
oversubscribed." The subscription UI updates in real-time showing remaining
allocation, but during high-demand offerings you might see availability
disappear between loading the page and submitting your transaction. Check the
transaction dashboard to confirm whether your subscription transaction reverted
due to oversubscription or another cause.

### Payment token approval and DvP mechanics

ATK uses atomic DvP (delivery versus payment) settlement where your payment
token and the security token exchange simultaneously or both revert. This
requires two preconditions: you must hold sufficient payment token balance, and
you must have approved the token contract to spend that amount.

Navigate to **Account** → **Tokens** to see your payment token balances. The
approval step is often overlooked. ERC-20 tokens require explicit approval
before another contract can transfer them on your behalf. Click **Approve
[Token]** for the payment token you're using (USDC, USDT, or institutional
stablecoin). Approve an amount covering your subscription amount plus estimated
gas costs.

The DvP settlement coordinator contract handles the atomic swap. If either leg
fails, both revert. This eliminates the counterparty risk inherent in
traditional systems where payment clears days before security delivery. The
transaction dashboard shows DvP settlement metrics including success rate,
average settlement time, and failure reasons. In production deployments, ATK
achieves 99%+ first-attempt DvP success for properly approved transactions.

### Timing and subscription windows

Offerings have defined subscription periods with start and end dates. Attempting
to purchase before the opening date gets rejected with "Subscription period not
started." After the closing date, you'll see "Subscription period ended."

Some offerings use tiered structures with early-bird pricing or different terms
for different periods. The subscription UI shows which tier is currently active
and when it ends. If you're rushing to catch an early-bird tier, check the
blockchain's current block timestamp against the tier end time. Network time is
what matters, not your local system clock.

## Post-subscription: when tokens don't appear immediately

You successfully submitted a subscription transaction, saw it confirmed on the
blockchain explorer, and your payment token was deducted. But the security
tokens aren't in your wallet. Before assuming something broke, understand the
three legitimate reasons for delayed token delivery.

### Vesting schedules and cliff periods

Many security offerings include vesting schedules where tokens are distributed
over time rather than immediately. This is especially common for equity
offerings to employees or early investors. Your subscription confirmation page
shows if vesting applies.

Navigate to **Account** → **Vesting** to see your schedule. Typical vesting uses
a one-year cliff (no tokens for 12 months) followed by monthly distribution over
36-48 months. During the cliff, your subscription is recorded and your payment
was accepted, but tokens won't appear until the cliff expires.

The vesting dashboard shows upcoming distribution dates and amounts. ATK's yield
management system automates these distributions, calculating pro-rata amounts
and executing transfers on schedule. No spreadsheets, no manual processing. The
issuer configured the vesting schedule once during token deployment, and the
smart contracts enforce it automatically.

### Batch distribution after subscription closes

Some issuers process subscriptions as a batch after the offering closes rather
than minting tokens for each subscription individually. This approach reduces
gas costs and allows the issuer to verify all subscribers before minting.

The subscription details page displays the expected distribution date. This
might be several days or weeks after the subscription period ends. During this
window, your payment has been received but tokens haven't been minted yet. Check
the issuer's announcements for distribution status updates.

When distribution occurs, the issuer executes a batch mint operation through
their SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE wallet. The transaction dashboard shows mint events
with timestamps. If the distribution date has passed and you still haven't
received tokens, verify on the blockchain explorer whether the issuer executed
the mint transaction. If they did but you didn't receive tokens, contact the
issuer as there may have been an issue with the subscriber address list.

### Final compliance verification delays

Some regulated offerings require additional compliance verification after
subscription but before token distribution. The compliance team might be
verifying documentation, running sanctions checks, or confirming accreditation
status with third-party providers.

The compliance metrics panel shows if your subscription is flagged for
additional review. Issuers typically complete these checks within 3-5 business
days of the subscription period closing. If your subscription is pending review
beyond the expected timeline, contact the compliance team directly. Provide your
wallet address, the subscription transaction hash, and the token contract
address.

## Bond coupon payments and yield distribution

Bond tokens in ATK use the yield management addon to automate interest payments.
When a scheduled coupon payment date arrives, the yield contract calculates
entitlements for all token holders at the record date and makes funds available
for claiming. Understanding this flow helps diagnose why you might not have
received an expected payment.

### Record dates versus payment dates

The **record date** determines who receives the payment. The **payment date** is
when the issuer funds the distribution and makes it available for claiming.
These are different dates, and confusion between them causes most "missing
payment" reports.

If you purchased bond tokens after the record date, you will not receive that
period's coupon payment even if you hold tokens on the payment date. The
previous holder, who owned tokens on the record date, is entitled to that
payment. Check the **Distribution History** page to see your eligibility status
for each scheduled payment. Green indicates you held tokens at record date; red
means you were not a holder.

Record dates typically fall 5-7 days before payment dates. This mirrors
traditional bond market conventions. The bond details page lists all upcoming
payment dates with their corresponding record dates. Set calendar reminders for
record dates if you're considering selling bonds, as selling between record date
and payment date means you forfeit the payment you're entitled to.

### Automated yield calculation through smart contracts

ATK's yield addon calculates coupon entitlements automatically based on token
holdings at the record date snapshot. The smart contract queries the token
contract for all holder addresses and balances at the record block, applies the
coupon rate, and creates a claim record for each holder.

This eliminates the manual spreadsheet process that plagues traditional bond
operations. No export to Excel, no pro-rata calculations, no risk of missing a
holder or miscalculating amounts. The calculation is deterministic and auditable
on-chain.

The yield dashboard (available in your observability stack) shows upcoming
payments, calculation status, and fund availability. When the payment date
arrives, check this dashboard to confirm the issuer has funded the distribution
vault. If the vault balance is zero, payments cannot be claimed even though your
entitlement is calculated. Contact the issuer to fund the vault.

### Claiming distributions versus automatic transfers

Some bond tokens automatically transfer coupon payments to holder addresses on
the payment date. Others require manual claiming where you initiate a
transaction to withdraw your entitlement from the yield contract. The bond
prospectus specifies which mechanism applies.

For manual-claim bonds, navigate to **Account** → **Unclaimed Distributions** to
see pending payments. Each row shows the bond token, payment date, amount, and
expiration deadline. Click **Claim** to initiate the withdrawal transaction. Be
aware that some bonds impose claim expiration periods (commonly 90 days from
payment date) after which unclaimed funds may be forfeited back to the issuer.

The observability stack's transaction dashboard tracks claim success rates and
processing times. If your claim transaction reverts, the error reason will
appear in the dashboard. Common causes include insufficient vault funding
(issuer hasn't deposited payment tokens), expired claim period, or frozen
account due to compliance issues.

## Bond redemption at maturity

When a bond reaches its maturity date, holders can redeem their tokens for
principal repayment plus any final coupon payment. The redemption process uses
ATK's vault-based custody and DvP settlement to ensure atomic exchange: your
bond tokens are burned and payment tokens are transferred in a single
transaction.

### Maturity date verification and redemption windows

First, confirm the maturity date has actually passed. The bond details page
shows maturity date and a countdown timer. Blockchain time (block timestamp) is
authoritative, not your local system clock. Early redemption attempts before
maturity will revert with "Maturity date not reached."

Some bonds configure specific redemption windows after maturity rather than
allowing immediate redemption. For example, a bond might mature on January 1 but
only allow redemptions during January 15-31. This gives the issuer time to
prepare liquidity. Check the bond prospectus for redemption window terms.
Attempting to redeem outside the allowed window triggers a revert.

The redemption UI shows whether the current date falls within an allowed
redemption period. If you're outside the window, the UI displays the next
opening date. Late redemption (attempting to redeem months or years after
maturity) may have different procedures, so contact the issuer if you've missed
the primary redemption window.

### Vault funding and liquidity constraints

ATK's vault system holds the issuer's redemption reserves. When you initiate
redemption, the vault must contain sufficient payment tokens to cover your
redemption amount (principal plus final coupon). If the vault is underfunded,
your redemption transaction will revert with "Insufficient vault balance."

Check the bond details page to see the vault's current funding status. The
observability dashboard shows vault balance, total outstanding bond principal,
and funding ratio. A funding ratio below 100% means the issuer hasn't fully
reserved for all outstanding bonds.

Vault funding is the issuer's responsibility. If you encounter insufficient
funds, contact the issuer's treasury operations team. They need to transfer
payment tokens to the vault address. Once funded, you can retry your redemption
immediately. The vault dashboard tracks funding events so you can see when the
issuer has deposited reserves.

Enterprise issuers typically maintain 105-110% funding ratios to ensure
redemptions never fail due to liquidity. If you're evaluating a bond offering,
check the issuer's vault funding policy and historical funding ratios in the
observability metrics. Consistent 100%+ funding demonstrates operational
maturity.

### Compliance requirements for redemption

Redemptions are treated as token transfers (from your address to the burn
address) and therefore enforce the same compliance rules as secondary transfers.
Even though you're destroying the tokens, your OnchainID must have valid,
current claims meeting the token's requirements.

If your KYC claim expired after you purchased the bond but before maturity, the
redemption will fail with "Compliance check failed." Navigate to **Account** →
**Claims** to verify all required claims are current. Renew any expired claims
through the compliance team before attempting redemption.

Account freezes also block redemptions. If the compliance team has frozen your
address due to sanctions screening or court order, you cannot redeem until the
freeze is lifted. The compliance metrics panel shows your freeze status. Contact
the compliance team to resolve the underlying issue.

## Fund redemptions and NAV-based pricing

Fund tokens represent units in investment funds with variable net asset value
(NAV). Unlike bonds with fixed redemption prices, fund redemptions settle at the
NAV calculated on the redemption date. This creates complexity around timing and
pricing that differs from other asset types.

### Redemption request windows versus execution dates

Most funds operate on a schedule where you submit a redemption request during a
submission window, and the actual redemption executes days or weeks later on a
redemption date. This two-phase process is standard in traditional fund
operations and ATK preserves it for regulatory consistency.

For example, a monthly-redemption fund might accept redemption requests from the
25th-30th of each month, with execution on the 15th of the following month. If
you try to submit a request on the 31st, the UI will reject it and show the next
submission window opening date. If you try to submit on the 10th, you're too
early for that month's redemption cycle.

The fund details page displays the redemption schedule with upcoming submission
windows and execution dates. Add these to your calendar if you're planning to
exit the fund. Missing a submission window means waiting until the next cycle,
which could be a month or quarter depending on the fund's redemption frequency.

This is where understanding DALP's unified lifecycle platform becomes crucial.
In fragmented systems, you'd be coordinating redemption requests through one
vendor, waiting for NAV calculation from another vendor, and tracking settlement
through a third. ATK handles the entire flow within one platform, with the
observability dashboard showing exactly which phase your redemption is in.

### NAV calculation timing and oracle dependencies

Net asset value is calculated based on the underlying assets held by the fund.
For equity funds, this requires current prices for all holdings. For bond funds,
it includes accrued interest and current valuations. ATK funds typically connect
to price oracles (Chainlink, Pyth, or institutional data providers) to obtain
real-time pricing.

The fund details page shows the NAV calculation schedule (daily, weekly,
monthly) and the last update time. If the NAV appears stale, check whether the
current date falls on a scheduled calculation date. Weekends and holidays
typically don't trigger updates unless the fund explicitly operates on a 24/7
schedule.

Oracle delays can cause NAV staleness. The observability dashboard includes an
oracle status panel showing the last update time for each price feed the fund
depends on. If a critical oracle hasn't updated recently, the NAV calculation
might be paused waiting for fresh data. This is a safety mechanism preventing
the fund from calculating with stale prices.

When you submit a redemption request, the price you'll receive is the NAV
calculated on the redemption date, not the NAV displayed when you submitted the
request. Your redemption is priced "forward" at the next calculation. This
protects the fund from arbitrage where investors might exploit stale NAVs. Plan
your redemption strategy accordingly, understanding that the settlement price is
unknown at request time.

### Lock-up periods and minimum holding requirements

Many funds impose lock-up periods where tokens cannot be redeemed for a minimum
holding duration after purchase. This is especially common in private equity
funds, real estate funds, and other illiquid strategies. Your fund prospectus
specifies the lock-up term (commonly 6-12 months).

The fund details page shows whether your specific holdings are subject to
lock-up and when the lock-up expires. Each purchase of fund units might have its
own lock-up expiration, so if you bought units in multiple tranches, some might
be redeemable while others remain locked.

Attempting to redeem locked tokens triggers a "Tokens locked" error. The error
message includes the unlock date. Mark this date on your calendar and retry
redemption afterward. Some funds allow early redemption with penalties
(typically forfeiting 5-10% of NAV). If your fund offers this option, the
redemption UI will present a penalty-adjusted redemption amount and require
explicit confirmation before proceeding.

Minimum holding requirements prevent you from reducing your position below a
threshold (e.g., 1,000 units minimum). If you hold 1,500 units with a 1,000
minimum, you cannot redeem 600 units as it would leave you with 900. The
redemption UI enforces this by either rejecting partial redemptions that violate
the minimum or requiring full redemption of all units. Contact the fund manager
if you need an exception to the minimum holding policy.

## Governance voting and proposal participation

Governance tokens grant holders the right to vote on protocol proposals,
parameter changes, or treasury spending decisions. ATK's governance module
implements snapshot-based voting where voting power is determined at the block
when the proposal is created, not when you cast your vote.

### Snapshot timing and voting power calculation

When a governance proposal is created, the smart contract records the current
block number as the snapshot block. Your voting power for that proposal equals
your token balance at that specific block. Tokens acquired after the snapshot
block give you zero voting power for that proposal, even if you hold them when
you try to vote.

This prevents the same tokens from being used to vote multiple times by
transferring them between addresses. It's a standard mechanism in on-chain
governance, but it surprises users who expect their current balance to determine
voting power.

The proposal details page shows the snapshot block and your voting power for
that specific proposal. If it shows zero, either you held no tokens at snapshot
time or you had delegated your voting power to someone else. The governance page
includes a voting power breakdown showing your self-delegated power versus power
delegated to others.

If you're planning to participate in governance, hold tokens before proposals
are created. Many protocols announce upcoming proposals days in advance, giving
you time to acquire tokens and ensure eligibility. Set up observability alerts
for new governance proposals so you can verify your voting power immediately
after proposal creation.

### Vote delegation mechanics and timing

Token holders can delegate their voting power to another address without
transferring the actual tokens. This allows passive holders to give voting power
to engaged community members or governance specialists. Delegation is
unidirectional (you delegate to someone, they don't delegate back) and affects
all future proposals until you undelegate or redelegate.

The key constraint: delegation only applies to proposals created after the
delegation transaction confirms. Existing proposals continue using the snapshot
from before delegation. If you delegate today, proposals from yesterday remain
unaffected.

To delegate, navigate to **Governance** → **Delegation** and enter the delegate
address. Confirm the transaction and wait for confirmation. The delegate now
votes with their own tokens plus any power delegated to them. You cannot vote
directly while your power is delegated; attempting to vote triggers "Voting
power delegated" error.

To reclaim voting power, undelegate by delegating to your own address
(self-delegation). This takes effect for proposals created after the undelegate
transaction. You cannot retroactively undelegate to vote on an active proposal.
The observability dashboard's governance metrics track delegation changes and
show how voting power is distributed across the community.

### Finality and vote immutability

Once you submit a vote transaction, it's permanent. You cannot change your vote
after submission. This prevents vote manipulation and ensures the tally remains
consistent throughout the voting period.

The proposal details page shows your vote status: not voted, voted for, voted
against, or abstained. If you've already voted, the voting buttons are disabled
and display your recorded choice. The blockchain explorer shows the vote
transaction timestamp and your chosen option.

Proposal status transitions matter. You can only vote during the "Active" voting
period. Once a proposal moves to "Passed," "Failed," or "Cancelled" status,
voting is closed. Attempting to vote on a closed proposal reverts with "Proposal
not active."

The observability dashboard tracks governance participation rates, vote
distribution, and proposal outcomes. Administrators can see which proposals
generated high engagement and which addresses consistently participate. This
data helps optimize proposal timing and communication strategies.

## Error message directory and quick resolution paths

ATK's error messages follow a consistent format indicating which layer rejected
your operation. Understanding these patterns accelerates troubleshooting.

**Compliance layer errors** indicate missing claims or account restrictions:

- "Compliance check failed" → Check required claims in compliance metrics panel
- "Address frozen" → Contact compliance team to resolve freeze reason
- "Claim expired" → Renew claims through compliance verification process

**Timing layer errors** indicate you're outside allowed windows:

- "Subscription period ended" → Wait for next offering or secondary market
- "Redemption window closed" → Check fund calendar for next window
- "Voting period ended" → Cannot vote on closed proposals

**State layer errors** indicate system or configuration issues:

- "Insufficient vault balance" → Issuer needs to fund vault
- "Offering oversubscribed" → Total allocation exhausted
- "Tokens locked" → Wait for lock-up expiration date

**Payment layer errors** indicate DvP settlement failures:

- "Insufficient payment token balance" → Add funds to wallet
- "Payment token not approved" → Approve token spending

The observability dashboard consolidates these errors into a **failed operations
panel** showing all recent revert reasons, affected users, and resolution
status. Administrators monitor this panel to identify systemic issues (e.g.,
vault underfunding affecting multiple users) versus individual problems (one
user missing a required claim).

## Preventive strategies using observability metrics

The best troubleshooting is preventing issues before they occur. ATK's
observability stack provides predictive monitoring that flags potential problems
days or weeks in advance.

**Claim expiration alerts** notify you 30 days before your OnchainID claims
expire. Renew claims proactively to avoid mid-transaction failures. The
compliance metrics panel shows all claim expiration dates for your address.

**Vault funding monitors** track issuer reserve ratios. If a bond issuer's vault
funding drops below 100%, the dashboard alerts administrators to deposit
reserves before redemptions start failing. Investors can see public vault
metrics and choose bonds from issuers with strong funding histories.

**Redemption window reminders** integrate with the platform's calendar. Enable
notifications for upcoming fund redemption submission windows so you never miss
a cycle. The dashboard shows your notification preferences and calendar
subscriptions.

**Governance participation tracking** shows which proposals you're eligible to
vote on and when voting periods end. Enable alerts for new proposals so you can
verify voting power and participate early in the voting period.

This proactive monitoring is a core DALP differentiator. Fragmented platforms
leave users to coordinate these checks across multiple vendors' dashboards.
ATK's unified observability stack surfaces everything in one place, with
intelligent alerting that prevents issues rather than just reporting them after
they occur.

## Escalation and support workflows

When self-service troubleshooting doesn't resolve your issue, escalate to the
appropriate team with complete diagnostic information.

**Information to gather before contacting support:** Document your wallet
address, the specific asset (token name and contract address), the operation you
attempted, any transaction hashes from failed attempts, error messages from the
UI and blockchain explorer, and relevant dates (record dates, maturity dates,
snapshot blocks). Screenshots of the observability dashboard showing your
compliance status or vault funding are especially helpful.

**Escalation paths by issue type:** For subscription issues, contact the
issuer's sales or investor relations team. They can verify offering status and
check subscription eligibility. For bond coupon or dividend payments, reach out
to the issuer's operations or treasury team with your distribution entitlement
calculation and wallet address. Redemption problems go to the fund manager or
issuer operations, including documentation of NAV at request time versus
execution time. Governance voting issues should be directed to the protocol's
governance coordinator or community manager, including your snapshot block
voting power.

**Expected response times:** Standard support requests receive responses within
4-8 business hours. Payment inquiries (missing coupon or dividend) are handled
within 1-2 business days, including time for the issuer to verify vault funding
and distribution execution. Urgent issues during active voting periods get
priority attention within 2-4 hours. Critical problems affecting multiple users
(such as systemic vault underfunding) trigger immediate escalation to platform
operations.

The observability dashboard includes a **support ticket tracker** showing open
issues, response times, and resolution status. Administrators monitor support
metrics to identify recurring problems and prioritize platform improvements.
This feedback loop helps ATK continuously refine user experience and operational
reliability.
