---
title: Identity & compliance
description:
  The Asset Tokenization Kit implements a sophisticated identity and compliance
  control plane that evaluates every token transfer against regulatory
  requirements in real time. This guide helps you troubleshoot KYC verification
  issues, manage identity claims, resolve OnchainID problems, and understand why
  transactions are blocked by compliance rules. Use the compliance metrics panel
  in the observability dashboard for real-time rule evaluation statistics.
pageTitle: Identity and compliance troubleshooting
tags: [troubleshooting, KYC, compliance, identity, claims, OnchainID]
---

## How to use this guide

Start by identifying whether your issue relates to KYC verification status,
missing or expired claims, or blocked transfers. Check the compliance metrics
panel in your observability dashboard for real-time statistics on claim
evaluation rates and common rejection reasons. Most compliance obstacles resolve
by renewing expired claims or completing missing verification steps. If you
encounter persistent blocks, gather your wallet address, OnchainID contract
address, and current claims before contacting the compliance team.

**Tip:** Keep identity documents and proof of address ready for KYC submissions
to accelerate verification turnaround.

## OnchainID verification flow

Every participant in the tokenization ecosystem must deploy an OnchainID
contract that serves as their on-chain identity anchor. This contract holds
cryptographically signed claims issued by trusted verifiers. The flow begins
when you create your OnchainID, which generates a unique smart contract address
linked to your wallet. Claim issuers—typically compliance officers or automated
KYC providers—then attach verifiable credentials to your OnchainID after
validating your documentation.

<Mermaid chart={`flowchart TB
    Start(User registration)
    Deploy(Deploy OnchainID contract)
    Submit(Submit KYC documents)
    Review(Compliance officer review)
    Issue(Issue claims to OnchainID)
    Registry(Register in Identity Registry)
    Eligible(User eligible for transfers)

    Start --> Deploy
    Deploy --> Submit
    Submit --> Review
    Review --> |Approved| Issue
    Review --> |Rejected| Submit
    Issue --> Registry
    Registry --> Eligible

    style Start fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Deploy fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Submit fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Review fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Issue fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Registry fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Eligible fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

Once claims are issued, the identity registry maintains a mapping between your
wallet address and your OnchainID. Transfer restriction contracts query this
registry to verify that you hold the required claims before permitting token
movements. This creates a trustless verification system where the blockchain
itself enforces compliance rules without human intervention.

## Claim lifecycle and expiration

Claims carry expiration timestamps to ensure that verification remains current.
The lifecycle starts when a claim issuer signs and attaches a claim to your
OnchainID. The claim remains valid until its expiration date, at which point
transfer restriction checks will begin rejecting transactions. Check the
compliance metrics panel for claim expiration tracking and renewal reminders.

<Mermaid chart={`flowchart TB
    Issue(Claim issued with expiration)
    Active(Claim active &amp; valid)
    Warning(Approaching expiration)
    Expired(Claim expired)
    Renew(Request renewal)
    Reissue(New claim issued)

    Issue --> Active
    Active --> Warning
    Warning --> |Expiration reached| Expired
    Warning --> |Renewed in time| Reissue
    Expired --> Renew
    Renew --> Reissue
    Reissue --> Active

    style Issue fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Active fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Warning fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Expired fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Renew fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Reissue fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

Set calendar reminders 30 days before claim expiration to avoid transfer
interruptions. The observability dashboard displays upcoming expirations for all
your active claims. Renewal typically requires resubmitting documentation to
prove that your status hasn't changed—for example, confirming you remain an
accredited investor or that your residential address is still valid.

## Claim types and jurisdictional requirements

Different asset classes and jurisdictions require different combinations of
claims. The following table outlines common claim types and their typical
renewal intervals across major regulatory frameworks:

| Claim Type            | Purpose                | US (Reg D) | EU (MiFID II) | Singapore (MAS) | Typical Validity |
| --------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------- | ------------- | --------------- | ---------------- |
| KYC Verified          | Identity confirmation  | Required   | Required      | Required        | 12-24 months     |
| Accredited Investor   | Suitability check      | Required   | N/A           | Required        | 12 months        |
| Professional Investor | EU suitability         | N/A        | Required      | N/A             | 24 months        |
| Jurisdiction          | Geographic eligibility | Required   | Required      | Required        | Updated on move  |
| AML Screening         | Sanctions check        | Required   | Required      | Required        | 6-12 months      |
| Tax Residency         | Withholding compliance | Optional   | Required      | Required        | Annual           |

Check your token's specific requirements in **Account** &gt; **Eligible
Assets**. Some assets may require additional claims such as institution
verification for wholesale-only securities or specific financial thresholds for
high-risk instruments. The compliance control plane automatically evaluates all
required claims before permitting transfers.

## KYC verification troubleshooting

### Document rejection resolution

When your KYC submission is rejected, the compliance system provides a specific
reason code that indicates the deficiency. Common rejection categories include
image quality issues where documents are blurry or cropped, validity problems
with expired or unsupported document types, information mismatches where your
profile data doesn't align with submitted documents, and selfie verification
failures.

For image quality rejections, capture new photos in good lighting without glare,
ensuring all document edges and text are clearly visible. Use color scans rather
than black-and-white copies. For validity issues, submit current
government-issued identification—passports, national IDs, or driver's
licenses—and verify the document hasn't expired. Information mismatches require
updating your profile in **Account** &gt; **Profile** to exactly match the name,
date of birth, and address on your documents.

Selfie verification ensures the person submitting documents matches the ID
photo. Remove glasses and hats, position your face in good lighting, and ensure
no one else appears in the frame. After correcting the issue, resubmit your KYC
through **Account** &gt; **Identity** &gt; **Submit Documents**. Check the
verification metrics dashboard to track your submission status and estimated
processing time.

### Extended pending status

KYC submissions typically process within 1-3 business days for straightforward
cases. Manual review takes longer during high-volume periods or for complex
verification scenarios such as non-standard documents, address verification
challenges, or enhanced due diligence requirements. Check your email and
platform notifications for requests for additional information from the
compliance team.

If your status remains pending beyond 5 business days, contact the compliance
team with your wallet address and submission date. The observability dashboard
shows current KYC processing queue depth and average turnaround times. You can
monitor real-time statistics on verification throughput to understand whether
delays are systemic or specific to your submission.

### Upload failures and workarounds

Document upload failures typically stem from file size limits (10 MB maximum),
unsupported formats (use PDF, JPG, or PNG), or browser issues. Convert HEIC/HEIF
photos from iOS devices to JPG before uploading. Try different browsers if
uploads hang—Chrome and Firefox generally provide the most reliable experience.

Network instability can interrupt large uploads. Compress images to smaller file
sizes if you're on a slow or mobile connection. Clear browser cache and
temporarily disable extensions that might interfere with file uploads. If
problems persist, contact the compliance team via email to submit documents
directly outside the platform interface.

## Claims management issues

### Missing OnchainID deployment

Claims cannot be issued to your address until you deploy an OnchainID contract.
Navigate to **Account** &gt; **OnchainID** &gt; **Create** to deploy your
identity contract. This transaction creates a smart contract that will hold your
verifiable credentials. Wait for deployment confirmation—typically one block
confirmation—before requesting claims from compliance officers.

Verify your OnchainID deployment by checking your address on a blockchain
explorer. The contract address should appear in your account dashboard. Only
after successful deployment can claim issuers attach credentials to your
identity. The observability dashboard tracks OnchainID deployment success rates
and average gas costs for identity contract creation.

### Claim issuance permissions

Only trusted claim issuers registered in the identity registry can attach claims
to your OnchainID. If claim issuance fails, verify that the issuer address is
authorized by checking the identity registry contract. Platform administrators
control the list of trusted issuers—typically compliance officers, automated KYC
providers, and approved verification services.

Claims must follow the correct data schema for each claim type. The system
validates claim format, topic registration, and expiration dates before
accepting issuance. Check transaction details on a blockchain explorer to
identify the specific revert reason if issuance fails. Insufficient gas limits
can also cause claim issuance to fail—retry with higher gas if transactions
revert.

### Expired claims blocking transfers

When a required claim expires, the transfer restriction module immediately
begins rejecting transactions. Navigate to **Account** &gt; **Identity** &gt;
**Claims** to review expiration dates for all your active claims. The compliance
metrics panel highlights claims approaching expiration and provides renewal
guidance for each claim type.

Common claims requiring periodic renewal include accredited investor status
(annually or when financial circumstances change), KYC verification (every 12-24
months), jurisdiction or residency (when relocating), and sanctions screening
(typically every 6-12 months). Submit updated documentation to your compliance
officer through the platform's renewal workflow.

You cannot transfer tokens while required claims are expired, though receiving
tokens may still function depending on the token's compliance rules. Prioritize
claim renewal to restore full access. Set calendar reminders 30 days before
expiration to prevent interruptions. The observability stack provides automated
alerts when claims approach expiration thresholds.

### Incorrect claim data

If a claim contains wrong information—incorrect country, investor
classification, or personal details—you must revoke and reissue the claim.
Update your profile information in **Account** &gt; **Profile** with the correct
data and supporting documentation. Contact the claim issuer to revoke the
incorrect claim, as you cannot self-revoke credentials.

Wait for revocation confirmation on the blockchain before requesting a new claim
with corrected data. Verify the new claim's data fields carefully before
attempting transactions. Do not attempt transfers with incorrect claims, as they
will fail compliance checks and may trigger additional scrutiny from the
compliance team.

## Transfer restriction failures

### Identity verification errors

The "Identity not verified" error indicates that either sender or recipient
lacks a properly configured OnchainID with required claims. Verify you have a
deployed OnchainID by checking **Account** &gt; **OnchainID**. If missing,
deploy your identity contract and complete the KYC process.

Recipients must also have OnchainIDs with appropriate claims. Contact your
recipient to ensure they've completed verification before attempting transfers.
The compliance control plane requires both parties to meet eligibility criteria
before approving transactions. Check the transfer restrictions dashboard to see
which specific requirements are failing for your transaction.

### Account freeze scenarios

An "Account frozen" error means the compliance officer or platform administrator
has suspended your address due to failed sanctions screening, suspicious
activity, regulatory requirements, or outstanding compliance obligations. This
is urgent—contact the compliance team immediately with your wallet address and
request the freeze reason.

Provide requested documentation to resolve the underlying issue. Common
resolutions include completing enhanced due diligence, updating expired
verification documents, or clarifying transaction patterns. Wait for the
compliance officer to explicitly unfreeze your account and verify the change
on-chain before attempting transactions.

Do not create new accounts or attempt to transfer assets through alternate
addresses. Resolving the freeze properly maintains your compliance history and
prevents escalation. The observability dashboard shows current freeze status and
provides contact information for compliance resolution.

### Geographic restrictions

"Country restricted" errors occur when a token has jurisdiction-based transfer
restrictions and your residency claim indicates you're in an ineligible country.
Check your jurisdiction claim in **Account** &gt; **Identity** &gt; **Claims**
to verify it reflects your current residence. Review the token's prospectus or
eligibility requirements to confirm which countries can hold the asset.

If you recently relocated, update your profile with proof of your new address
and request an updated jurisdiction claim. Verify the new country is eligible
for the token before expecting transfers to succeed. Some securities are
restricted in specific jurisdictions due to regulatory requirements—these
restrictions cannot be bypassed and are enforced at the smart contract level.

## Common error messages explained

**"Missing required claim"** indicates the transfer requires a specific claim
topic you don't possess. Check the error message for the claim topic number (for
example, topic 1 typically represents KYC verification). Navigate to **Account**
&gt; **Eligible Assets** to see all requirements for the token you're trying to
transfer. Contact your compliance officer to obtain the missing claim.

**"Claim expired"** means a required claim's validity period has ended. Request
renewal from the compliance officer with updated documentation proving your
status remains current.

**"Invalid claim signature"** suggests the claim's cryptographic signature
verification failed, indicating either corruption or issuance by an unauthorized
party. Request a new claim from an authorized issuer registered in the identity
registry.

**"Claim issuer not trusted"** means the claim was issued by an address not
registered as a trusted verifier. Only claims from authorized compliance
officers in the identity registry are accepted. Request reissuance from the
correct issuer.

**"Identity registry mismatch"** indicates your OnchainID is registered in a
different identity registry than the token requires. This is a platform
configuration issue requiring administrator assistance—contact support to
resolve registry alignment.

## Monitoring compliance metrics

The observability stack provides real-time visibility into compliance operations
through dedicated dashboards. Access the compliance metrics panel to view rule
evaluation statistics, claim expiration trends, verification throughput, and
common rejection reasons. These metrics help you understand system-wide
compliance health and identify patterns in your own verification status.

Key metrics include average KYC processing time, claim renewal rates, transfer
restriction pass/fail ratios by rule type, and OnchainID deployment success
rates. Use these indicators to anticipate processing delays during high-volume
periods and to benchmark your verification timeline against platform averages.
The dashboard also displays upcoming claim expirations for your account with
recommended renewal timelines.

## Getting compliance assistance

If issues persist after following troubleshooting steps, gather the following
information before contacting the compliance team: your wallet address,
OnchainID contract address, current claims with expiration dates, KYC status and
submission date, the specific token you're attempting to access, and complete
error messages with transaction hashes.

Email compliance@platform.example with this information, attaching relevant
documentation and screenshots of error messages. Be prepared for identity
verification during the support process. Response times vary by issue type: KYC
submissions typically receive responses within 1-3 business days, claim issuance
within 1-2 business days, account freeze reviews within 4-8 hours, and general
compliance questions within 1-2 business days.

For urgent account freezes or time-sensitive transactions, note the urgency in
your subject line and provide comprehensive context to accelerate resolution.

## Preventive compliance practices

Maintain proactive compliance by submitting high-quality documents during
initial verification, keeping profile information current, responding promptly
to verification requests, and maintaining valid contact information. Monitor
claim expiration dates regularly and set reminders 30 days before expiration to
initiate renewals.

Review token requirements before investing to ensure you meet eligibility
criteria. Check jurisdiction restrictions, required claims, and renewal
obligations before committing capital. Keep copies of all submitted documents,
screenshot claims and expiration dates, record KYC submission dates, and
preserve correspondence with the compliance team for your records.

Update your information immediately when circumstances change—moving countries,
changes in financial status, or updates to identity documents. Complete KYC as
soon as joining the platform and request all relevant claims upfront to avoid
delays when you want to transact. By maintaining current, valid claims, you
minimize transaction failures and ensure continuous access to your digital
assets.
