---
title: Wallet & accounts
description: Solutions for wallet connection, account access, and balance display problems
pageTitle: Wallet and account troubleshooting
tags: [troubleshooting, wallet, account, connection, recovery]
---

## How to use this guide

The platform integrates browser-based wallet extensions to manage your digital
identity and sign transactions. When wallet issues arise, they typically stem
from connection state mismatches, network configuration, or permission conflicts
between your browser extension and the platform's Web3 interface.

This guide walks you through the wallet architecture, common failure modes, and
systematic troubleshooting steps. Use the wallet connection dashboard in your
account settings to monitor real-time connection status and diagnose issues
before they escalate.

**Primary audience:** All platform users **Related guides:**
[Onboarding Guide](/docs/user-guides/getting-started)

Start by identifying your issue in the relevant section below, then follow the
solutions sequentially. Each section includes verification steps to confirm
resolution before proceeding.

## Understanding wallet architecture

The platform uses a multi-layer wallet architecture that separates identity
(your browser wallet), custody (smart contract wallets), and compliance
(OnchainID). Understanding how these layers interact helps diagnose where
failures occur.

<Mermaid chart={`flowchart TB
    Browser(Browser Wallet Extension<br/>MetaMask, Coinbase Wallet)
    Platform(Platform Web Interface)
    Provider(Web3 Provider Layer)
    SmartWallet(Smart Contract Wallet)
    OnchainID(OnchainID Contract)
    Blockchain(Blockchain Network)

    Browser -->|1. Connection request| Platform
    Platform -->|2. Provider injection| Provider
    Provider -->|3. Account access| Browser
    Browser -->|4. Network verification| Blockchain
    Platform -->|5. Wallet detection| SmartWallet
    SmartWallet -->|6. Identity lookup| OnchainID

    classDef primary fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef secondary fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef tertiary fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

    class Browser,Platform primary
    class Provider,SmartWallet secondary
    class OnchainID,Blockchain tertiary

`} />

Your browser wallet (like MetaMask) serves as the signing authority. The
platform detects your wallet address, then queries the blockchain to find your
associated smart contract wallet and OnchainID. Connection failures often occur
at step 2 (provider injection) when multiple wallets compete, or at step 6 when
OnchainID isn't fully deployed.

Check your wallet connection status in the account dashboard. The status
indicator shows green when all layers connect successfully, yellow during
synchronization, and red when disconnected. Hover over the indicator for
detailed connection diagnostics.

## Wallet connection flows

### Standard connection process

When you click "Connect Wallet," the platform initiates a six-step handshake
with your browser extension. Each step must complete before proceeding to the
next.

<Mermaid chart={`flowchart TB
    Start(User clicks Connect Wallet)
    Detect(Platform detects available wallets)
    Request(Platform requests account access)
    UserApprove(User approves in wallet popup)
    NetworkCheck(Platform verifies network match)
    FetchWallet(Platform queries smart wallet address)
    FetchID(Platform loads OnchainID data)
    Success(Connection complete)

    Start --> Detect
    Detect --> Request
    Request --> UserApprove
    UserApprove --> NetworkCheck
    NetworkCheck --> FetchWallet
    FetchWallet --> FetchID
    FetchID --> Success

    classDef primary fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef secondary fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef tertiary fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

    class Start,Success tertiary
    class Detect,Request,UserApprove primary
    class NetworkCheck,FetchWallet,FetchID secondary

`} />

The platform caches your connection state locally. If you've connected before,
steps 1-4 may complete automatically unless your wallet's site permissions have
been revoked. Monitor the connection progress indicator at the top of the
platform during initial connection—it displays the current step and any blocking
issues.

**Network mismatch** is the most common failure point. If your wallet shows
Ethereum Mainnet but the platform requires Polygon, the connection halts at the
network verification step. The platform displays the expected network in the
connection modal and offers a one-click network switch button that triggers your
wallet's network change prompt.

### Transaction signing workflow

After successful connection, every blockchain operation requires your explicit
signature approval. Understanding this flow helps distinguish between connection
issues and transaction failures.

<Mermaid chart={`flowchart TB
    Action(User initiates action<br/>transfer, approval, etc.)
    Build(Platform builds transaction)
    Gas(Platform estimates gas)
    Prompt(Wallet popup appears)
    Review(User reviews transaction details)
    Sign(User signs transaction)
    Broadcast(Platform broadcasts to network)
    Confirm(Wait for block confirmation)
    Update(Platform updates UI)

    Action --> Build
    Build --> Gas
    Gas --> Prompt
    Prompt --> Review
    Review --> Sign
    Sign --> Broadcast
    Broadcast --> Confirm
    Confirm --> Update

    classDef primary fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef secondary fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef tertiary fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

    class Action,Sign,Update primary
    class Build,Gas,Prompt,Review secondary
    class Broadcast,Confirm tertiary

`} />

If you don't see the wallet popup at step 4, check your browser's popup blocker
settings and ensure the wallet extension is unlocked. The platform displays a
"Waiting for signature" indicator until you approve or reject. Transaction
history in the account dashboard shows pending, confirmed, and failed
transactions with direct links to the blockchain explorer.

## Supported wallet comparison

Different wallet types offer varying features and security models. Choose based
on your usage pattern and security requirements.

| Wallet Type         | Security Level | Multi-Network | Mobile Support    | Hardware Integration | Best For                      |
| ------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **MetaMask**        | High           | Yes           | iOS, Android      | Ledger, Trezor       | General use, developers       |
| **Coinbase Wallet** | High           | Yes           | iOS, Android      | No                   | Beginners, mobile-first users |
| **WalletConnect**   | Medium         | Yes           | Any mobile wallet | Varies by wallet     | Mobile-only users             |
| **Ledger Live**     | Very High      | Yes           | No                | Native               | High-value holdings           |
| **Trezor Suite**    | Very High      | Limited       | No                | Native               | Security-focused users        |

The platform supports any wallet implementing the EIP-1193 provider standard.
For production use with significant asset values, we recommend hardware wallets
(Ledger, Trezor) connected through MetaMask for the optimal security-usability
balance.

**Multi-wallet scenarios:** If you have multiple wallet extensions installed,
the platform displays a selection modal during connection. Temporarily disable
unused extensions for this session to prevent provider conflicts. Only one
wallet should be active per browser session—having MetaMask and Coinbase Wallet
both enabled can cause race conditions where the wrong wallet responds to
connection requests.

## Troubleshooting connection issues

### Wallet not connecting

The platform failed to establish a Web3 provider connection with your browser
wallet. This typically indicates missing extensions, permission blocks, or
provider injection failures.

**Check wallet installation.** Open your browser's extensions manager
(chrome://extensions or about:addons) and verify your wallet extension appears
in the list, shows as enabled, and displays a recent version number. Click the
extension icon in your browser toolbar—it should open the wallet interface
without errors. If the extension is missing or disabled, reinstall from the
official provider website, never from third-party sources.

**Verify site permissions.** Open your wallet extension, navigate to Settings >
Connected Sites, and check if the platform domain appears. If listed but showing
as blocked, click to re-enable permissions. If not listed, return to the
platform and click Connect Wallet to trigger a fresh permission request. Some
wallets cache permission denials—clearing the wallet's site data (Settings >
Advanced > Reset) forces a clean permission flow.

**Resolve provider conflicts.** Having multiple Web3 wallet extensions active
creates race conditions where the wrong provider responds first. Disable all
wallet extensions except your primary one, then refresh the platform. Enable
additional wallets only after successful connection to establish provider
priority. Check the browser console (F12 > Console) for "Multiple injected
providers detected" warnings.

**Connection verification:** After completing these steps, the account dashboard
should display your wallet address with a green connection indicator. The
address format should match what you see in your wallet extension (typically 0x
followed by 40 hexadecimal characters). If addresses mismatch, disconnect and
reconnect to re-sync the provider state.

Monitor connection health in the observability dashboard under Account >
Connection Status. The dashboard displays connection uptime, reconnection
events, and provider change history.

### Network configuration mismatch

Your wallet is connected to a different blockchain network than the platform
requires. The platform operates on a specific network configuration—attempting
to use incompatible networks causes all transaction requests to fail.

**Identify required network.** The platform displays the expected network name
in the header navigation (e.g., "Polygon Mainnet" or "Ethereum Sepolia
Testnet"). Compare this to your wallet's current network shown in the wallet
extension dropdown. If they differ, click the network switch button in the
platform header—this triggers your wallet to display a network change prompt.

**Add custom networks.** For private or testnet deployments, the platform may
operate on a network not pre-configured in your wallet. Click the "Add Network"
button in the connection modal to automatically populate your wallet with the
correct network configuration (RPC URL, chain ID, currency symbol). Review the
network details before approving—verify the chain ID matches the deployment
documentation.

**Network persistence.** Your wallet remembers network settings per-site. If you
switch networks manually after connecting, the platform detects the mismatch and
displays a reconnection prompt. Always use the platform's network switch
interface rather than changing networks directly in your wallet—this ensures
proper cleanup of cached provider state.

Check the network synchronization status in Account > System Health. The
dashboard shows your current network, required network, block height, and sync
latency. Latency above 5 seconds indicates network connectivity issues
independent of wallet configuration.

### Disconnection and session stability

Frequent disconnections indicate unstable provider state, browser extension
crashes, or background tab throttling. The platform maintains a WebSocket
connection to your wallet's provider—if this connection drops, you'll see
repeated "Wallet disconnected" notifications.

**Browser session management.** Modern browsers aggressively throttle background
tabs to conserve resources. If the platform tab is backgrounded for more than 5
minutes, the wallet provider may suspend. Bring the platform tab to the
foreground and wait 10 seconds for automatic reconnection. The connection
indicator animates during reconnection attempts.

**Extension stability.** Wallet extensions occasionally crash or freeze,
especially under heavy load. Open your wallet extension in a separate window
(right-click extension icon > Open in new window) and verify it's responsive. If
frozen, restart the extension from your browser's extension manager. After
restart, return to the platform and click Reconnect Wallet.

**Clear provider state.** Persistent disconnections may result from corrupted
provider cache. In your wallet extension, navigate to Settings > Advanced >
Reset Account. This clears transaction history and cached state but preserves
your seed phrase and accounts. After reset, reconnect to the platform—the fresh
provider state usually resolves instability.

The platform logs all connection and disconnection events. View the connection
timeline in Account > Activity Log to identify patterns (e.g., disconnections
every hour at :00 might indicate scheduled browser extension updates).

## Account access and recovery

### Lost wallet access

Losing access to your browser wallet doesn't mean losing access to your
assets—your seed phrase is the ultimate recovery mechanism. The platform stores
no secrets; all cryptographic keys live in your wallet.

**Seed phrase recovery.** Every wallet generates a 12-24 word seed phrase during
initial setup. This phrase reconstructs your private keys on any device. Open
your wallet's recovery interface, select "Import Wallet," and enter your seed
phrase word-by-word. After import, the wallet regenerates your addresses and the
platform automatically detects your smart contract wallet on next connection.

**Recovery code lookup.** If you saved your recovery codes during platform
onboarding, you can use them to initiate wallet recovery without administrator
intervention. Navigate to Account > Wallet Recovery, enter your recovery code,
and follow the identity verification flow. This process links a new browser
wallet to your existing OnchainID and smart contract wallet.

**Administrator-assisted recovery.** For cases where seed phrases and recovery
codes are both lost, contact your platform administrator with identity
verification documents. Administrators can initiate a recovery transaction that
links a new wallet address to your OnchainID. This requires multi-signature
approval from compliance officers and typically takes 1-2 business days for
security verification.

**Prevention:** Store your seed phrase offline in a secure location (safe
deposit box, fireproof safe). Never store seed phrases in email, cloud storage,
or password managers—these are frequent breach targets. Consider metal seed
phrase storage solutions for long-term durability.

**CRITICAL:** Platform support staff will never ask for your seed phrase or
private keys. Anyone requesting these is attempting theft. Only enter your seed
phrase directly into your wallet application, never into websites or support
tickets.

### Password and authentication issues

Platform login uses traditional email/password authentication with optional
two-factor authentication (2FA). Wallet connection is separate from platform
login—you must complete both to access all features.

**Password reset.** Click "Forgot Password" on the login page, enter your email
address, and check for a reset link. Password reset emails arrive within 5
minutes—check spam folders if not in inbox. The reset link expires after 1 hour
for security. After resetting, your new password must meet complexity
requirements (minimum 12 characters, mixed case, numbers, symbols).

**Two-factor authentication recovery.** If you've lost access to your 2FA device
(authenticator app or hardware token), use a backup code from your initial 2FA
setup. Each backup code is single-use—you receive 10 codes at setup. If all
backup codes are exhausted or lost, contact your administrator to disable 2FA on
your account. This requires identity verification and approval from a compliance
officer.

**Browser compatibility.** The platform requires JavaScript enabled and modern
browser features (WebAssembly, localStorage, WebSockets). Use the latest version
of Chrome, Firefox, Edge, or Safari. Disable browser extensions that block
JavaScript or interfere with local storage—these prevent proper session
management. Try incognito/private browsing mode to isolate extension conflicts.

Verify your browser environment in Account > System Diagnostics. This page runs
automated checks for JavaScript support, localStorage availability, WebSocket
connectivity, and wallet provider detection, showing pass/fail status for each
requirement.

## Balance and transaction visibility

### Balance display issues

Token balances shown in the platform UI are queried from the blockchain in
real-time via the subgraph indexing layer. Mismatches between platform display
and actual on-chain balances indicate indexing lag or cache staleness.

The platform maintains two balance sources: the subgraph (for fast UI queries)
and direct blockchain RPC calls (for authoritative verification). The subgraph
typically syncs within 30 seconds of on-chain events, but high network
congestion can delay indexing up to 5 minutes.

**Refresh balance data.** Click the Refresh icon next to your balance display.
This triggers a direct blockchain query that bypasses the subgraph cache. The UI
shows a loading spinner during the refresh—wait for completion before concluding
the balance is incorrect. If the refreshed balance matches your expectation, the
issue was stale cache. If mismatch persists, proceed to blockchain verification.

**Verify on blockchain explorer.** Your token balance is the source of truth on
the blockchain, independent of any platform UI. Copy your smart contract wallet
address from the account page, navigate to the blockchain explorer (e.g.,
Etherscan, PolygonScan), paste your address, and view the token holdings tab.
Compare the explorer balance to the platform display. If explorer shows correct
balance but platform doesn't, report a subgraph indexing issue to support.

**Network synchronization status.** The platform header displays a network
status indicator showing blockchain sync health. Green indicates full
synchronization (block lag &lt;10 blocks), yellow indicates catching up (lag
10-100 blocks), red indicates sync failure (lag &gt;100 blocks or RPC
disconnect). If status is yellow or red, wait for sync completion before
trusting balance displays.

Check indexing health in the observability dashboard under System > Subgraph
Status. The dashboard shows current indexed block height, indexing rate
(blocks/second), and historical lag metrics. Persistent lag above 50 blocks
indicates subgraph performance issues requiring infrastructure investigation.

### Missing transaction history

Transaction records appear in your account history after blockchain confirmation
and subgraph indexing. Newly submitted transactions show as "pending"
immediately, transition to "confirmed" after block inclusion (typically 15-60
seconds), and display full details after indexing completes.

**Check pending transactions.** Your wallet extension maintains a separate
transaction queue showing unconfirmed transactions. Open your wallet, view the
activity tab, and look for pending transactions. If a transaction appears in
your wallet but not the platform, it's awaiting confirmation—network congestion
can delay block inclusion. Wait for confirmation, then refresh the platform.

**Verify transaction hash.** Every blockchain transaction has a unique hash
(transaction ID). If you submitted a transaction but it's not appearing, copy
the transaction hash from your wallet activity and paste it into the blockchain
explorer search. The explorer shows transaction status independent of platform
indexing: "Success" means included in a block, "Pending" means waiting for
miners, "Failed" means execution error.

**Indexing delays.** After on-chain confirmation, transactions must be indexed
by the subgraph before appearing in platform history. Indexing typically
completes within 1 minute but can lag during high event volume. Check the
subgraph status dashboard (System > Subgraph Status) for indexing lag metrics.
If lag exceeds 5 minutes, indexing infrastructure may require scaling.

**Historical data limits.** The platform UI displays the most recent 100
transactions by default. Older transactions remain on-chain and in the subgraph
database but require pagination or filtering to view. Use the transaction
history filters (date range, transaction type, counterparty) to search beyond
recent activity.

Monitor transaction processing metrics in Account > Transaction Analytics. The
dashboard shows transaction submission rate, average confirmation time, gas
usage patterns, and failure rates—useful for identifying systematic issues
versus isolated incidents.

## OnchainID deployment and management

### Deployment failures

OnchainID contracts deploy automatically during platform onboarding. Deployment
is a blockchain transaction paid for by the platform's operational wallet—you
don't need gas tokens for this step. However, network conditions and smart
contract state can cause deployment failures.

**Verify deployment status.** Navigate to Account > OnchainID to view your
identity contract status. The page displays deployment state: "Not Started,"
"Pending," "Confirmed," or "Failed." If status is "Pending" for more than 10
minutes, check the blockchain explorer using the transaction hash shown on the
status page—the transaction may be stuck in the mempool due to insufficient gas
price.

**Retry failed deployments.** If deployment status shows "Failed," click the
"Retry Deployment" button. This submits a new transaction with adjusted gas
settings. Common failure causes include network congestion (retry during
off-peak hours), nonce conflicts (retry automatically resolves), and contract
deployment size limits (report to support—may require contract optimization).

**Duplicate OnchainID detection.** Each wallet address can have only one
associated OnchainID contract. If you've previously deployed an OnchainID
(perhaps in a test environment or different platform instance), attempting a
second deployment fails with "OnchainID already exists." The platform
automatically detects existing OnchainIDs and uses them instead of deploying
duplicates—no action needed.

**Recovery from partial deployment.** OnchainID deployment is a multi-step
process: deploy identity implementation, deploy proxy, initialize proxy, set
claims. If deployment fails mid-process, the platform's resume mechanism detects
completed steps and retries only failed portions. Never create a new account to
retry—use Account > System Setup > Resume Onboarding to continue from the last
successful checkpoint.

Track OnchainID deployment metrics in the observability dashboard under
Identity > Deployment Analytics. The dashboard shows deployment success rates,
average deployment time, and common failure modes across all platform users.

### System deployment during onboarding

First-time users complete a system deployment phase that initializes all
required smart contracts: OnchainID, smart contract wallet, token registries,
and compliance modules. This process takes 3-5 minutes and involves multiple
blockchain transactions.

**Monitor deployment progress.** The onboarding screen displays a progress bar
showing contract deployment status. Each contract transitions through states:
Queued > Deploying > Confirming > Complete. The platform deploys contracts in
dependency order—later contracts require earlier ones to complete. Don't close
your browser or navigate away during deployment—doing so interrupts the
deployment sequence.

**Handle deployment timeouts.** Network congestion can cause individual contract
deployments to timeout (pending more than 10 minutes). If this occurs, the
platform displays which contract timed out and offers a "Retry" button for that
specific contract. Click Retry to resubmit only the failed
deployment—successfully deployed contracts are not re-deployed.

**Resume interrupted onboarding.** If you close your browser during system
deployment, returning to the platform shows a "Resume Onboarding" button instead
of "Create Account." Click this to continue from the last completed deployment
step. The platform tracks deployment state server-side—your progress is never
lost. Attempting to create a new account results in duplicate identity errors.

**Deployment verification.** After all contracts show "Complete" status, the
platform runs verification checks: contract bytecode validation, ownership
verification, registry linking. These checks ensure contracts deployed correctly
and can interact properly. If verification fails, the platform identifies the
misconfigured contract and offers remediation steps.

View detailed deployment logs in Account > Onboarding History. The logs show
each contract deployment with transaction hash, gas used, deployment time, and
any errors encountered—useful for support troubleshooting.

## Error message reference

### Common wallet errors

**"Wallet not detected"** No Web3 provider found in browser. Install MetaMask or
compatible wallet extension, refresh page, and click Connect Wallet.

**"Network mismatch"** Wallet connected to different network than platform
requires. Click the network switch button in platform header, approve network
change in wallet popup, and wait for reconnection.

**"Insufficient gas"** Wallet lacks native tokens to pay transaction fees. Add
the network's native token (ETH, MATIC, etc.) to your wallet, then retry the
transaction. Minimum recommended balance: 0.1 native tokens.

**"User rejected request"** Transaction or connection cancelled in wallet popup.
Retry the operation and click "Approve" when your wallet prompts. If rejecting
intentionally, no action needed.

**"OnchainID already exists"** Wallet address already has an OnchainID contract
deployed. No action required—platform uses existing OnchainID. Verify in
Account > OnchainID.

**"Transaction underpriced"** Gas price too low for current network conditions.
Your wallet automatically adjusts gas prices, but during extreme congestion,
increase the priority fee manually in wallet settings before retrying.

**"Nonce too low"** Transaction nonce conflict—usually caused by parallel
transaction submission. Wait 30 seconds and retry. If persistent, reset your
wallet's transaction nonce in Settings > Advanced > Reset Account.

## Getting support

When self-service troubleshooting doesn't resolve your issue, contact platform
support with comprehensive diagnostic information for faster resolution.

**Gather diagnostics before contacting support:**

- Wallet address (visible in account dashboard)
- Network name and chain ID (shown in platform header)
- Transaction hash if applicable (from wallet activity or platform history)
- Browser console errors: Press F12, click Console tab, screenshot any red error
  messages
- Screenshot of error state showing full error message and context

**Contact channels:**

- **Email:** support@platform.example (check your deployment documentation for
  actual support email)
- **Subject line format:** "[Wallet Issue] Brief description"
- **Include:** All diagnostic information from above, steps already attempted,
  time when issue first occurred

**Support response SLA:**

- Wallet connection issues: 4-8 business hours
- Account recovery requests: 1-2 business days (requires identity verification)
- Critical security concerns: 1-2 hours (suspected unauthorized access, stolen
  funds)

**Emergency scenarios requiring immediate contact:**

- Lost access during active transaction: Report immediately with transaction
  hash to prevent fund loss
- Security breach suspected: Contact security team directly
  (security@platform.example), freeze account if possible
- Unauthorized wallet activity: Disconnect wallet, report to administrator,
  change all passwords

**Escalation path:** If support response exceeds SLA or issue requires urgent
resolution, request escalation to senior support engineer. For compliance or
regulatory concerns, request direct contact with compliance officer.

## Preventive best practices

### Wallet security fundamentals

**Seed phrase protection.** Your 12-24 word seed phrase is the master key to all
assets. Store it offline in a secure physical location—safe deposit box,
fireproof home safe, or specialized metal seed phrase storage device. Never
store seed phrases digitally (email, cloud storage, screenshots, password
managers). Never share your seed phrase with anyone—legitimate support staff
will never request it.

**Hardware wallet integration.** For accounts holding significant asset value
(above $10,000), use a hardware wallet (Ledger, Trezor) connected through
MetaMask. Hardware wallets keep private keys isolated in tamper-resistant
chips—even if your computer is compromised, attackers can't extract keys.
Connect hardware wallet to MetaMask, then use MetaMask to connect to the
platform for the security benefits of hardware plus the compatibility of browser
wallets.

**Multi-signature considerations.** The platform supports multi-signature smart
contract wallets requiring multiple approvals for transactions. For
organizational accounts or high-value individual holdings, configure multi-sig
with 2-of-3 or 3-of-5 signature requirements. This prevents single points of
failure and protects against compromised individual wallets.

### Connection hygiene

**Verify platform URL.** Bookmark the official platform URL and always access
via bookmark—never via search engine results or email links. Phishing sites
mimic the platform interface to steal wallet credentials. Check the URL bar
shows the correct domain and HTTPS lock icon before connecting your wallet.

**Site permission audits.** Regularly review connected sites in your wallet
settings (Settings > Connected Sites). Revoke permissions for sites you no
longer use or don't recognize. Each connected site can request transaction
signatures—minimize attack surface by limiting connections to trusted platforms
only.

**Disconnect when inactive.** Click "Disconnect Wallet" in the platform account
menu when finished with your session. This revokes the platform's access to your
wallet until you explicitly reconnect. Particularly important on shared
computers or when accessing from public networks.

**Network verification.** Before signing any transaction, verify the network
shown in your wallet matches your expectation. Attackers sometimes trick users
into switching to malicious networks. The platform header always displays the
required network—if wallet shows different network, investigate before
proceeding.

### Monitoring and alerting

**Blockchain explorer checks.** Weekly, check your smart contract wallet address
on the blockchain explorer to verify all transactions are authorized. Review the
full transaction list for unexpected transfers or approvals. Set up blockchain
explorer email alerts (if available) for transaction notifications.

**Gas price awareness.** Before submitting transactions, check current network
gas prices using tools like ETH Gas Station or PolygonScan gas tracker. During
extreme congestion, gas fees can exceed transaction value—consider delaying
non-urgent transactions until network conditions improve.

**Wallet balance monitoring.** The platform displays balance, but verify
independently via blockchain explorer monthly. Discrepancies may indicate
platform indexing issues or, in extreme cases, security problems. Report any
unexplained balance changes to support immediately.

**Activity log review.** Check Account > Activity Log weekly for connection
events, transaction submissions, and setting changes. Unauthorized activity
(logins from unknown locations, unexpected transactions) requires immediate
action—change passwords, revoke wallet connections, contact support.

By following these practices systematically, you'll prevent most wallet issues
before they occur and catch security concerns early when remediation is
simplest.
