---
title: Getting started
description:
  Your first asset tokenization project takes 30-45 minutes from login through
  token deployment. This guided onboarding journey establishes your digital
  identity, deploys core infrastructure contracts, and configures compliance
  rules before you issue your first security token.
pageTitle: Getting started - Your first tokenization project
tags: [tutorial, getting-started, user, issuance]
---

## Your onboarding journey

Welcome to the Asset Tokenization Kit. Whether you're a **business operator**
managing tokenization workflows, a **technical architect** evaluating the
platform, a **compliance officer** configuring regulatory controls, or a
**developer** integrating with the system, this guide walks you through the
foundational setup every user completes. The platform onboarding establishes
your cryptographic identity, deploys the infrastructure you need for compliant
asset issuance, and introduces you to the observability dashboards that provide
visibility into every platform operation.

ATK's architecture centers on the **DALP (Digital Asset Lifecycle Platform)
lifecycle model**—from issuance through ongoing management with DvP settlement,
Vault custody, and automated Yield distribution. Your onboarding journey
prepares your environment for this complete lifecycle, not just token creation.
By the end of this guide, you'll understand how the platform's observability
stack helps you monitor compliance events, track settlement operations, and
verify system health through purpose-built dashboards.

The following diagram shows your path from initial login through first token
deployment. Each step builds on the previous one, establishing the cryptographic
and contractual foundation for secure, compliant asset management.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
  Start(Platform Login) --> Wallet(Create Wallet)
  Wallet --> Security(Set PIN/OTP)
  Security --> Identity(Deploy OnchainID)
  Identity --> System(Deploy System Contracts)
  System --> Assets(Select Asset Types)
  Assets --> Addons(Choose Addon Modules)
  Addons --> Complete(Onboarding Complete)
  Complete --> Create(Create First Token)
  Create --> Deploy(Deploy Token)
  Deploy --> Mint(Mint Initial Supply)
  Mint --> Done(Ready to Use)

style Start fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px
style Complete fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px
style Done fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px
style Wallet fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px
style Identity fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px
style System fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px
`} />

## Before you start

Make sure you have:

- Active platform account with access credentials
- Basic understanding of your asset type (bond, equity, fund, stablecoin, or
  deposit)
- Compliance requirements for your jurisdiction

**Time required:** 30-45 minutes for complete setup and first token issuance

<Steps>

<Step>

### Log in and access the platform

Navigate to your platform instance URL (provided by your administrator) and sign
in using your credentials. After successful authentication, you'll land on the
onboarding welcome screen if this is your first login. The platform
automatically detects new users and guides you through the initial setup
sequence.

If you're having trouble logging in, check that JavaScript is enabled and try
clearing your browser cache. The platform requires modern browser features for
cryptographic operations and transaction signing.

</Step>

<Step>

### Complete onboarding workflow

The platform guides you through structured setup to ensure your identity,
security, and infrastructure are configured before you start issuing assets.
This workflow establishes the foundation for the DALP lifecycle capabilities
you'll use for ongoing asset management.

#### Create your wallet

Your platform wallet manages cryptographic operations and holds your
administrative permissions. This wallet becomes your on-chain identity and the
signing authority for all transactions you initiate. Click **Create Wallet** on
the welcome screen, review the security information, and allow the platform to
generate your wallet automatically. The system creates a secure key pair and
displays recovery codes—download or print these immediately and store them
securely offline, not in email or cloud storage.

Recovery codes are the only way to restore wallet access if you lose your
session. Treat them like a password to a bank account—anyone with access to your
recovery codes controls your administrative wallet and its permissions.

#### Set up wallet security

Choose your authentication method for sensitive operations like token deployment
or minting. You have two options: **PIN code** provides a 6-digit numeric PIN
for quick local authentication, while **OTP (one-time password)** uses an
authenticator app for enhanced security. Most users choose PIN for convenience,
but choose OTP if regulatory requirements mandate two-factor authentication.
After selecting your method, verify it works before proceeding—you'll use this
authentication throughout your platform interactions.

#### Deploy your OnchainID

Your OnchainID is your verifiable identity on the blockchain, required for
compliance with the ERC-3643 security token standard. This isn't just an
address—it's a smart contract that holds verifiable claims about your identity
and compliance status, signed by trusted issuers. Click **Create Identity** on
the identity setup screen and wait about 30 seconds for the platform to deploy
your OnchainID contract. Review your identity address once deployed and note
it—this becomes your permanent on-chain identity for all compliance
interactions.

The Identity Registry (deployed in the next step) references your OnchainID to
verify you meet eligibility requirements for holding and transferring security
tokens. As you add claim issuers and verification topics later, your OnchainID
accumulates the credentials needed for compliant participation.

#### Deploy system contracts

The platform now deploys core system contracts for your organization—the
**Identity Registry** manages participant identities, **Compliance modules**
enforce transfer rules, **Claim Topics and Issuers** provide the verification
framework, and **Token Factories** deliver the asset deployment infrastructure.
This step runs automatically and takes 2-3 minutes, with the platform displaying
progress for each contract deployment.

These contracts form the foundation of your DALP-enabled environment. The
observability dashboards begin collecting metrics as soon as deployment
completes—you can monitor contract creation events, gas consumption, and
registry initialization in real time.

#### Select asset types

Choose which asset types your organization will issue. **Bonds** provide
fixed-term debt instruments with maturity and yield schedules, **Equity** tokens
represent shares with optional voting rights, **Funds** tokenize investment fund
shares with management fees, **Stablecoins** offer fiat-pegged tokens with
collateral backing, and **Deposits** represent certificate of deposit tokens.
Select at least one asset type to proceed—you can enable additional types later
through platform settings.

The platform deploys factory contracts for each selected asset type. These
factories streamline token deployment by providing pre-configured templates that
comply with ERC-3643 and include the appropriate DALP lifecycle extensions (like
yield distribution for bonds or vault integration for all asset types).

#### Choose addon modules

Select optional functionality modules that extend platform capabilities. The
**Yield** addon (automatically selected if you chose Bonds) manages automated
interest and dividend distribution across token holders. Future releases will
expand addon options to include advanced DvP settlement configurations, custom
compliance modules, and external oracle integrations.

Note that you can deploy additional addons later from platform settings as your
needs evolve. The modular architecture allows you to extend functionality
without redeploying core infrastructure.

</Step>

<Step>

### Navigate to asset creation

After onboarding completes, you're ready to create your first token. The
dashboard provides an overview of your deployed system contracts, active asset
types, and key metrics from the observability stack. Navigate to **Asset
Management** in the left sidebar, select your desired asset type (for example,
**Bonds** for debt instruments), and click **Create New Token** to begin asset
configuration.

The observability dashboard now shows your infrastructure metrics—contract
deployment status, gas usage patterns, and identity registry state. These
dashboards become more valuable as you issue assets and onboard participants,
providing real-time visibility into compliance checks, transfer restrictions,
and lifecycle operations.

</Step>

<Step>

### Configure asset details

The asset designer guides you through token configuration specific to your asset
type. Each field you complete defines the token's behavior on-chain and
determines which compliance rules and lifecycle capabilities apply. Take your
time to ensure accuracy—while you can update some parameters later, core
attributes like token symbol and decimals are immutable after deployment.

#### Basic information

Every asset type requires foundational parameters. Enter a **Token name** with
the full legal name (for example, "MidCorp 2027 Senior Notes"), a **Token
symbol** for trading and display (for example, "MCORP27"), **Decimals** to
define precision (typically 18 for divisibility, 0 for whole shares), and
**Initial supply** for the number of tokens to mint at deployment (you can set
this to 0 and mint later).

#### Asset-specific settings

Each asset type requires additional configuration tailored to its financial
structure and lifecycle requirements:

<Tabs items={["Bonds", "Equity", "Funds", "Stablecoins", "Deposits"]}>
<Tab value="Bonds">

Configure the **Maturity date** timestamp when the bond matures and principal is
repaid, **Face value** as the redemption amount per token, **Denomination
asset** referencing the collateral token address (usually a stablecoin or
fiat-backed token), and **Yield schedule** with payment frequency and rate.
These parameters integrate with the Yield addon to automate coupon payments
throughout the bond's lifecycle.

</Tab>
<Tab value="Equity">

Configure **Voting rights** to enable or disable shareholder voting capabilities
and **Shareholder class designation** to differentiate between common and
preferred shares. The platform supports on-chain voting through governance
modules that respect token-weighted voting rights.

</Tab>
<Tab value="Funds">

Configure the **Management fee** in basis points and the **Fund manager
address** that receives fee distributions. The platform automatically calculates
and distributes management fees based on the configured schedule and current
token holder balances.

</Tab>
<Tab value="Stablecoins">

Configure the **Peg currency** (USD, EUR, or other fiat) and **Collateral
requirements** that define the backing ratio and reserve management rules. The
platform can integrate with price oracles to monitor peg stability and trigger
rebalancing operations.

</Tab>
<Tab value="Deposits">

Configure **Certificate details** including issuing institution, deposit terms,
and interest rate, along with optional **Maturity terms** if the deposit has a
fixed term. The platform treats deposits similarly to bonds for lifecycle
management purposes.

</Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Assign operational roles

Assign addresses to operational roles that control key platform functions. The
**GOVERNANCE_ROLE** manages compliance configuration and rule updates,
**SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE** executes mint and burn operations, **CUSTODIAN_ROLE**
handles account freezing and recovery, and **EMERGENCY_ROLE** controls pause
functionality for critical incidents. Assign your admin wallet to all roles
initially—you can delegate to specialized operational wallets later as your team
grows and responsibilities distribute across multiple personnel.

</Step>

<Step>

### Configure compliance rules

Set transfer restrictions and eligibility requirements that enforce regulatory
compliance at the smart contract level. The platform's compliance architecture
prevents non-compliant transfers before they execute, rather than relying on
post-transaction monitoring and remediation.

#### Select compliance modules

Choose from available compliance modules that restrict token transfers based on
your regulatory requirements. **Country Allow List** restricts transfers by
jurisdiction, **Identity Verification** requires verified OnchainID with
specific claims, **Time Lock** enforces holding periods to prevent immediate
resale, **Supply Limit** caps total token supply to prevent over-issuance, and
**Transfer Limit** restricts individual transaction sizes. Configure parameters
for each enabled module—these rules stack together, so transfers must satisfy
all enabled modules to succeed.

#### Set claim requirements

Specify required OnchainID claims for token holders—claims like accredited
investor status, KYC/AML verification level, jurisdiction of residence, and
regulatory compliance attestations. Only addresses with all required claims can
receive tokens, ensuring regulatory compliance is enforced cryptographically.
The Identity Registry checks claims automatically during every transfer attempt,
with results visible in the compliance monitoring dashboard.

</Step>

<Step>

### Review and deploy

Review your asset configuration carefully in the summary view. Verify all
parameters including token metadata, role assignments, compliance settings, and
the gas cost estimate. Click **Deploy Token** when you're satisfied with the
configuration. The platform prompts you to authenticate the deployment
transaction—enter your PIN or OTP when requested, review transaction details one
final time, and confirm deployment.

Deployment takes 30-60 seconds as the platform creates your token contract,
initializes compliance modules, and registers the token with your Identity
Registry. The platform displays progress as contracts deploy, with each step
updating the deployment status. Watch the observability dashboard during
deployment to see contract creation events, gas consumption, and compliance
module initialization in real time.

</Step>

<Step>

### Post-deployment actions

After successful deployment, your token is live and ready for lifecycle
operations. The DALP capabilities—DvP settlement, Vault custody, and Yield
distribution—are now available for this asset.

#### View your token

Navigate to **Asset Management** &gt; **Your Asset Type** and click your newly
deployed token to view the token details page. This dashboard shows contract
address, current supply, holder count, compliance status, and recent events. The
observability panel displays real-time metrics for this specific token—transfer
attempts, compliance rejections, settlement operations, and vault interactions.

#### Mint initial supply (if needed)

If you deployed with zero initial supply, navigate to the **Actions** tab on
your token page and click **Mint Tokens**. Enter the recipient address and
amount, then confirm the transaction after authenticating with your PIN or OTP.
The recipient must have a verified OnchainID with all required claims—the
compliance module automatically validates eligibility before the mint
transaction succeeds.

Watch the observability dashboard as you mint to see the compliance verification
process, identity registry checks, and supply update metrics. These dashboards
help you troubleshoot if minting fails due to compliance restrictions or
identity issues.

#### Configure yield schedule (bonds only)

For bond tokens with yield distributions, navigate to the **Yield** tab on your
bond token page and click **Configure Schedule**. Set payment frequency
(quarterly, semi-annual, or annual), specify the yield rate as an annual
percentage, and indicate the yield token (denomination asset) used for coupon
payments. Save the configuration to activate automated yield distributions—the
platform executes payments automatically based on your schedule, distributing
yield proportionally to all token holders at each payment date.

The observability dashboard tracks yield distribution events, showing payment
execution status, gas costs, holder distributions, and any failures due to
insufficient yield token reserves. This visibility helps you maintain adequate
reserves and verify successful distributions.

</Step>

</Steps>

## What you accomplished

You've now established your complete DALP-enabled asset tokenization
environment. You set up your cryptographic wallet and on-chain identity,
deployed the core system contracts that enforce compliance and manage
participants, created and deployed your first compliant security token with
appropriate transfer restrictions, and configured asset-specific parameters
including lifecycle capabilities like yield schedules. Your environment is ready
for the full DALP lifecycle—issuance, custody, settlement, and yield management.

The observability dashboards are collecting metrics across your infrastructure,
providing visibility into identity verification, compliance enforcement, token
operations, and lifecycle events. As you onboard investors and execute
operations, these dashboards become your operational control center.

## Next steps

Now that you've deployed your first token and established your infrastructure:

- **Onboard investors** - See
  [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) to add
  participants with verified identities and compliance claims
- **Execute corporate actions** - Review
  [Corporate actions](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/corporate-actions) for
  lifecycle management including dividends, stock splits, and redemptions
- **Configure payments** - Set up
  [Fiat bridge](/docs/user-guides/operations/fiat-bridge) for off-chain
  settlement and bank transfers
- **Monitor compliance** - Use the compliance dashboard to track rule
  enforcement, identity verification status, and transfer restriction events in
  real time
- **Explore DvP settlement** - Configure atomic settlement for bond redemptions
  and secondary market trades
- **Set up vault custody** - Connect vault infrastructure for secure asset
  custody with multi-signature controls

For detailed guides on each asset type:

- [Issue a bond](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-bond)
- [Issue equity](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-equity)
- [Issue a fund](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-fund)
- [Issue a stablecoin](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-stablecoin)
- [Issue a deposit](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-deposit)

## Verify your setup

After completing these steps, confirm everything works correctly by checking key
system components. The observability dashboards provide the most reliable
verification—healthy metrics confirm successful deployment and correct
configuration.

### Check wallet and identity

Navigate to your profile page using the top-right avatar menu. Verify your
wallet address displays correctly, confirm your OnchainID contract address
appears with the "Identity Verified" badge, and note the claims associated with
your identity. The observability dashboard shows your identity registration
event and any claims issued to your OnchainID by trusted issuers.

### Check system deployment

Navigate to **Platform Settings** &gt; **System Contracts** and verify all core
contracts show "Deployed" status. Note contract addresses for the Identity
Registry and Token Factories—these addresses appear in transaction logs and
observability dashboards as you execute operations. The contract deployment
metrics dashboard shows deployment timestamps, gas costs, and initialization
events.

### Check your first token

Navigate to **Asset Management** and find your deployed token in the list. Click
the token to view details including contract address, current supply, holder
count, and enabled compliance modules. Check the **Events** tab to see the
deployment transaction and any subsequent operations. The token-specific
observability panel shows transfer metrics, compliance check results, and
lifecycle operations.

**Expected result:** All components display correct addresses, statuses show
"Deployed" or "Active", and your token appears in the asset list with accurate
configuration. Observability dashboards show green health indicators and recent
metrics for identity, compliance, and token operations.

## Troubleshooting

### OnchainID deployment fails

Check that your wallet has sufficient native token balance for gas by reviewing
the wallet balance dashboard. Verify network connectivity by checking the node
status panel in the observability dashboard. Retry deployment after 30
seconds—the platform queues failed transactions and automatically retries after
a cooldown period.

### Token deployment reverts

Verify all required fields are filled correctly by reviewing the configuration
summary. Check that role addresses are valid Ethereum addresses using the
address validation tool. Ensure the denomination asset address (for bonds)
points to a deployed ERC20 contract by querying the contract deployment
dashboard. Review the transaction revert reason in the observability logs—these
logs provide specific error messages that indicate the failure cause.

### Cannot mint tokens

Verify the recipient has a verified OnchainID by searching for their address in
the Identity Registry dashboard. Check the recipient OnchainID has all required
claims by viewing their claim list in the identity details panel. Ensure your
wallet has SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE by reviewing the role assignments on the token
details page. The compliance monitoring dashboard shows why specific transfers
fail—check this dashboard for detailed eligibility verification results.

### Onboarding wizard stuck or unresponsive

Clear browser cache and cookies, then restart the browser. Ensure JavaScript is
enabled in browser settings. Try a different browser (Chrome, Firefox, Safari
recommended). Check the browser console for errors by pressing F12 and selecting
the Console tab—these error messages help diagnose client-side issues. The
platform observability dashboard tracks API errors and timeouts, helping you
distinguish between frontend and backend issues.

### System contracts deployment timeout

Check that Docker services are running using `docker compose ps` to see
container status. Verify the blockchain node is syncing by checking
`curl http://localhost:8545` for a valid JSON-RPC response. Restart Docker
services with `bun run dev:reset` to clear any stale state and reinitialize the
local blockchain. The node monitoring dashboard shows block production rates and
sync status, helping you diagnose blockchain infrastructure issues.

For additional help, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) or
check the observability dashboards for detailed error logs and system metrics.
