---
title: Platform capabilities
description:
  High-level overview of ATK as SettleMint's implementation of a DALP,
  highlighting features and capabilities
pageTitle: Overview of the SettleMint asset tokenization kit
tags: [concept, product-overview, features, value]
---

## Overview

This page explains the Asset Tokenization Kit (ATK) as SettleMint's
implementation of DALP principles. You'll learn what ATK provides, which asset
classes it supports, how compliance and security work in practice, and what
outcomes institutions achieve.

## Key terms

- **[ATK](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#atk)** – Asset Tokenization Kit,
  SettleMint's production DALP implementation
- **[ERC-3643](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#erc-3643)** – Token standard
  for permissioned securities with embedded compliance
- **[SMART Protocol](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#smart-protocol)** –
  SettleMint Adaptable Regulated Token protocol providing unified compliance
- **[Multi-signature wallet](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#multi-signature-wallet)**
  – Wallet requiring multiple approvals for transactions

## What the Asset Tokenization Kit is

The SettleMint Asset Tokenization Kit (ATK) is a production-ready implementation
of a Digital Asset Lifecycle Platform. It's working software that institutions
can deploy to manage the complete lifecycle of tokenized securities from
issuance through redemption.

ATK provides everything needed to create, manage, and service tokenized bonds,
equities, funds, stablecoins, and deposit certificates in one integrated
platform. The compliance engine, custody controls, settlement coordination, and
operational tooling work together because they were architected together.

The full-stack includes smart contracts implementing compliance-aware tokens, a
modern web application for issuers, administrators, and investors, backend APIs
and services for integration, blockchain indexing for real-time ownership
registries, database schemas for off-chain data, deployment infrastructure for
production operations, and developer documentation and SDKs for customization.

The platform is opinionated about architecture—unified lifecycle management with
embedded compliance—but flexible about deployment. Run it on-premises, in your
cloud infrastructure, or as dedicated SaaS. Deploy to Ethereum, Polygon,
Hyperledger Besu, Quorum, or any EVM-compatible network. Customize the user
interface, integrate with your systems, and extend the smart contracts for
asset-specific requirements.

## Key features and capabilities

### Complete lifecycle management (competitive differentiator)

ATK's implementation of DALP principles delivers **integrated lifecycle
management** that competitors can't match. These capabilities aren't add-ons or
integrations—they're architected into the platform from the ground up:

**Delivery versus Payment (DvP)**: Atomic settlement ensures asset and cash
transfer simultaneously or both revert. No settlement risk. No reconciliation.
True T+0 finality. The XvP settlement system coordinates multi-party exchanges
where every leg executes together—if any party's transfer fails, the entire
settlement reverts. This eliminates counterparty risk and the need for trusted
intermediaries.

**Secure Treasury Vaults**: Multi-signature custody with role-based access
control. Configurable quorum requirements ensure no single person can move
assets unilaterally. The vault system provides maker-checker workflows where one
admin proposes transactions and others approve before execution. Emergency pause
capabilities protect against compromised accounts. Full audit trails track every
proposal, approval, and execution.

**Automated Yield Management**: Fixed yield schedules automate dividend,
interest, and coupon distributions without manual processing. Configure payment
schedules once, and the platform handles distributions automatically on payment
dates. Token holders claim their yields directly through smart contracts with
cryptographic proof of entitlement. No spreadsheets, no reconciliation, no
manual wire transfers.

These three capabilities—**DvP settlement, vault custody, and yield
automation**—form the operational backbone that separates institutional-grade
lifecycle platforms from basic token issuance tools. While competitors offer
pieces through multiple vendors requiring integration, ATK delivers unified
lifecycle management where these capabilities work together seamlessly.

### Multi-asset support from day one

Five asset classes ship as ready-to-deploy templates, not future roadmap
promises:

**Bonds (Debt Instruments)**: Fixed or floating rate, with maturity dates,
coupon payment schedules, redemption mechanics, and collateral tracking. The
platform automates interest distributions on payment dates and handles
redemption at maturity without manual reconciliation.

**Equities (Company Shares)**: Common or preferred shares with voting rights,
dividend distributions, cap table management, and shareholder governance. Voting
power automatically derives from token holdings at snapshot blocks, and votes
are tallied on-chain without spreadsheets.

**Funds (Investment Units)**: Open-ended or closed-end fund structures with NAV
tracking, management fee calculation, performance monitoring, subscription
processing, and redemption workflows. The platform maintains real-time holder
registries and automates fund administration that traditionally takes days.

**Stablecoins (Fiat-Pegged Tokens)**: Tokenized representations of fiat
currencies with reserve management, peg maintenance, minting controls tied to
actual deposits, and burning processes for redemptions. Issuers get transparency
into collateral ratios and automated compliance with reserve requirements.

**Deposits (Certificates)**: Time-locked deposit certificates with collateral
verification, maturity tracking, and interest accrual. These bridge traditional
banking products into programmable assets with automated lifecycle management.

Each asset type implements the SMART Protocol (SettleMint Adaptable Regulated
Token), which means they all share compliance infrastructure, custody controls,
and operational tooling despite having different economic terms and lifecycle
events.

**Critically, every asset type gains access to ATK's lifecycle capabilities**:
bonds use DvP for primary issuance and secondary trading, vaults for secure
treasury management, and yield schedules for automated coupon payments; equities
leverage vaults for corporate treasury and yield automation for dividend
distributions; funds rely on DvP for subscription/redemption settlement and
vaults for asset custody. The lifecycle management isn't separate—it's how these
assets operate.

### Regulatory compliance embedded in the architecture

Compliance isn't a dashboard feature you turn on after deploying tokens. It's in
the token's DNA through the ERC-3643 standard implementation.

The Identity Registry maintains verified investor profiles with KYC/AML status,
accreditation levels, and jurisdictional eligibility. An investor completes
verification once, and their identity travels with them across all assets
they're eligible to hold.

The Compliance Engine evaluates every transfer before execution, checking
whether the sender is verified, whether the recipient meets eligibility
requirements, whether the transfer violates holding limits or lockup periods,
and whether jurisdictional rules permit the transaction. Non-compliant transfers
revert with clear reason codes explaining why.

The Rule Library provides a configurable framework for jurisdiction-specific
compliance. The platform supports templates for Regulation D and Regulation S
(US), MiFID II and MiCA (Europe), MAS frameworks (Singapore), and FCA
requirements (UK). Compliance officers configure rules through UI controls
rather than writing smart contract code.

The Audit Trail captures every decision: which rules were evaluated, which
identity claims were verified, which administrators approved exceptions, with
immutable timestamps and cryptographic proof. Regulators get machine-readable
evidence, not manually compiled spreadsheets.

### Enterprise-grade security and custody

Multi-signature wallets require configurable quorum approval for treasury
operations. No single person can move assets unilaterally. The platform enforces
maker-checker workflows where one admin proposes a transaction and others
approve before execution.

HSM Integration is architected to support hardware security modules for storing
private keys in tamper-resistant devices, meeting bank-grade key management
requirements (integration roadmap). Keys would never leave the HSM; signing
would happen inside the secure enclave.

Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) defines who can perform which operations: token
creation, compliance approval, treasury transactions, administrative settings.
Permissions map to organizational hierarchies with proper segregation of duties.

The platform is designed to integrate with enterprise custodians like
Fireblocks, Coinbase Custody, Copper, or Metaco (integration roadmap).
Institutions that already trust a custodian could continue using them while
gaining ATK's lifecycle management capabilities.

The platform assumes keys will be stolen, employees will make mistakes, and
external attacks will occur. Security is defense in depth: multiple layers that
must all fail before assets are at risk.

### Modern user experience across personas

The **Issuer Portal** walks asset managers through token creation with a
multi-step wizard that handles configuration, compliance setup, legal
documentation uploads, and deployment. Preview every setting before finalizing.
Deploy to testnet first, validate behavior, then promote to mainnet when ready.

The **Investor Portal** gives token holders real-time visibility into their
holdings, transaction history, pending corporate actions, and upcoming events.
No waiting for quarterly statements. No calling customer service to check your
balance. Everything is transparent and current.

The **Admin Console** centralizes operations: pending compliance approvals, KYC
verifications, whitelist management, corporate action scheduling, reporting and
analytics. Compliance officers and operations teams have purpose-built tools for
their workflows.

The **Developer Portal** provides API documentation, SDK downloads, code
examples, sandbox environments for testing, and webhook configurations for
event-driven integration. Technical teams can integrate ATK into existing
systems without reverse-engineering undocumented behavior.

Every interface is customizable. White-label the entire experience with your
branding, or integrate individual components into existing web properties. The
platform adapts to your institutional standards rather than forcing users to
learn yet another interface.

### Scalable architecture for production workloads

The platform uses modern microservices architecture with independent scaling for
each component. The web application, API server, blockchain indexer, and
database tier scale independently based on load.

TanStack-based frontend provides instant navigation and optimistic updates.
Users don't wait for blockchain confirmations to see UI updates; the interface
predicts outcomes and updates immediately while settlement completes in the
background.

Drizzle ORM with PostgreSQL manages off-chain data with strong consistency
guarantees. The Graph protocol indexes blockchain events into a queryable
registry that updates within seconds of on-chain finality.

Redis caching accelerates frequent queries. Expensive operations get cached
aggressively so dashboards load instantly even with thousands of assets and tens
of thousands of holders.

Kubernetes deployment via Helm charts enables cloud-native operations with
autoscaling, rolling updates, health monitoring, and self-healing. Deploy to any
Kubernetes environment: public cloud, private cloud, or on-premises.

### Production-grade observability included

**Unlike competitors that require separate observability tools, ATK ships with a
complete monitoring stack pre-configured and integrated.** VictoriaMetrics
collects metrics, Loki aggregates logs, Tempo traces requests, and Grafana
provides dashboards—all included in the Helm deployment.

Pre-built dashboards cover every component: Besu blockchain metrics, TheGraph
indexing status, ERPC gateway performance, database queries, infrastructure
health, and application-level KPIs. Troubleshoot issues by correlating logs,
metrics, and traces in one interface. Configure alerting to catch problems
before they impact users.

This integrated observability means faster incident resolution, lower
operational overhead, and elimination of separate SaaS monitoring contracts.
Operations teams gain visibility from day one without integration projects.

### Banking and payment integration

The platform supports manual treasury workflows where operators verify fiat
deposits, process stablecoin minting, and coordinate redemptions. Automation of
banking rails integration through SWIFT or SEPA connectivity is a planned
capability.

ISO 20022 message translation is an architectural design target to ensure
traditional treasury systems can process blockchain transactions without
learning new formats. The goal is for token transfers to generate standard
messages that core banking platforms recognize.

Multi-currency support handles assets denominated in different fiat currencies
with proper tracking. The same platform manages USD bonds, EUR stablecoins, and
SGD deposit certificates without requiring separate deployments.

Payment versus Payment (PvP) settlement coordinates multi-leg transactions where
one token exchanges for another token, with atomicity guarantees ensuring both
legs complete or both revert.

## How it works (simplified architecture)

<Mermaid
  chart={`
flowchart TB
    subgraph UX["User Experience Layer"]
    UI1[Issuer Portal]
    UI2[Investor Portal]
    UI3[Admin Console]
    UI4[Developer Portal]
    end
    
    subgraph API["API & Business Logic"]
    ORPC[ORPC API Server]
    BL[Business Services]
    end
    
    subgraph BC["Blockchain Layer"]
    BC1[Smart Contracts<br/>ERC-3643 Tokens]
    BC2[Compliance Modules]
    BC3[Identity Registry]
    BC4[Factory Contracts]
    end
    
    subgraph DATA["Data Layer"]
    DB[(PostgreSQL)]
    CACHE[(Redis Cache)]
    IDX[The Graph<br/>Indexer]
    end
    
    subgraph EXT["External Integrations"]
    EXT1[Banking Rails]
    EXT2[KYC Providers]
    EXT3[Custody Services]
    EXT4[Document Storage]
    end
    
    UX --> API
    API --> BC
    API --> DATA
    API --> EXT
    BC --> DATA
    
    style UI1 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UI2 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UI3 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UI4 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    style ORPC fill:#0ea5e9,stroke:#0369a1,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BL fill:#0ea5e9,stroke:#0369a1,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    style BC1 fill:#10b981,stroke:#047857,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BC2 fill:#10b981,stroke:#047857,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BC3 fill:#10b981,stroke:#047857,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BC4 fill:#10b981,stroke:#047857,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    style DB fill:#0ea5e9,stroke:#0369a1,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CACHE fill:#0ea5e9,stroke:#0369a1,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style IDX fill:#0ea5e9,stroke:#0369a1,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    style EXT1 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EXT2 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EXT3 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EXT4 fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#6d28d9,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
`}
/>

The architecture separates concerns: user interfaces for different personas, API
layer for integration and business logic, blockchain layer for immutable truth
and compliance enforcement, data layer for performance and querying, and
external integrations for interoperability with existing systems. Data flows
bidirectionally—user actions flow down through the API to smart contracts and
databases; blockchain events flow up through indexers to update the API and user
interfaces.

## Benefits and tangible outcomes

**Faster time to market**: Issuers go from term sheet to live token in days
instead of months. Templates handle compliance structure, factory contracts
deploy tokens automatically, and the platform eliminates most custom
development.

**Reduced operational overhead**: Corporate actions that took teams of people
and multiple days execute automatically. Dividend distributions, coupon
payments, NAV updates, and redemptions happen programmatically without manual
calculations or reconciliation.

**Compliance confidence**: Non-compliant transactions don't execute because
eligibility checks happen before execution. Regulators see a platform
architected for control. Risk committees approve deployments faster when the
architecture demonstrates proper controls.

**Better investor experience**: Real-time holdings visibility, instant
settlement, automated distributions, and transparent audit trails replace
quarterly statements and opaque processes. Investor support tickets drop because
the platform provides self-service transparency.

**Lower total cost of ownership**: One platform replacing multiple vendors means
one contract to negotiate, one security review, one integration project, one
support relationship. Procurement cycles shrink from months to weeks.

## Who's using ATK and for what

Production deployments span multiple use cases. Asset managers tokenize private
fund units to automate administration and enable secondary trading. Banks issue
deposit certificates as programmable tokens with automated maturity processing.
Corporations explore tokenized bonds for direct-to-investor capital raising with
embedded compliance.

Geography matters less than regulatory clarity. European institutions leveraging
MiCA frameworks, Singapore financial institutions under MAS oversight, and Gulf
Cooperation Council markets with clear tokenization guidelines are moving
fastest. The US market is more cautious but accelerating as regulatory
frameworks solidify.

Scale varies from pilot programs managing tens of millions to institutional
deployments handling hundreds of millions in tokenized assets. The platform
architecture supports both with the same codebase and operational model.

## What this means for your organization

If you're exploring tokenization, ATK provides a complete platform rather than
forcing you to become a systems integrator. If you're already running a pilot on
fragmented infrastructure, ATK offers a migration path to unified lifecycle
management with embedded compliance.

If you're a developer, ATK gives you modern APIs, comprehensive documentation,
and working reference implementations. If you're an operator, ATK provides
purpose-built tools for daily workflows rather than generic blockchain
explorers.

If you're a risk officer, ATK demonstrates defense-in-depth security with audit
trails that regulatory frameworks require. If you're a compliance officer, ATK
embeds policy into the enforcement path rather than relying on post-transaction
checks to catch violations.

The platform is specifically architected for regulated financial instruments
with institutional requirements. If you're tokenizing securities, funds, bonds,
or deposits with real compliance obligations, ATK implements what you need.

## Where to next

- **[Use cases](/docs/executive-overview/use-cases)** – Real-world scenarios
  across asset classes
- **[Compliance & security](/docs/executive-overview/compliance-security)** –
  Regulatory and security architecture details
- **[Glossary](/docs/executive-overview/glossary)** – Key terms and definitions
