---
title: Compliance & security
description:
  Compliance failures cost millions in fines, legal fees, and lost trust. ATK
  eliminates that risk by embedding regulatory controls directly into every
  transaction, making compliance automatic rather than aspirational. This page
  explains how ATK's architecture prevents violations before they happen and
  gives risk committees the evidence they need to approve your platform.
pageTitle: Compliance, security, and trust in ATK
tags: [concept, compliance, security, trust, regulations]
---

## Key terms

- **[ERC-3643](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#erc-3643)** – Token standard
  embedding compliance checks in transfer execution
- **[OnchainID](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#onchainid)** – Decentralized
  identity protocol for portable investor credentials
- **[HSM](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#hsm)** – Hardware Security Module
  providing tamper-resistant key storage
- **[Multi-signature](/docs/executive-overview/glossary#multi-signature-wallet)**
  – Wallet requiring multiple approvals for transactions

## Why institutions need compliance-first architecture

Have you ever watched a promising digital asset initiative collapse because
compliance was treated as an afterthought? Traditional securities have
compliance processes that evolved over decades through painful, costly failures.
Transfer agents verify eligibility before updating ownership records because
regulators mandated it after investors lost money. Custodians enforce security
controls before releasing assets because someone once walked away with millions.
Risk committees approve platforms that demonstrate control, auditability, and
regulatory alignment from day one—not platforms promising to "add compliance
later."

ATK was architected with this reality as the foundational requirement.
Blockchain technology streamlines traditional processes, but only when the
platform implements controls at least as robust as what exists today. The
difference between a compliant token and an unregistered security isn't
technical sophistication—it's whether regulators can trace every decision,
verify every identity check, and prove you prevented violations before they
occurred. ATK implements compliance as embedded infrastructure that makes
violations impossible, not as optional configuration features that developers
might enable correctly.

## Regulatory compliance by design

### Compliance happens in the transfer path, not after it

Every token transfer in ATK executes through compliance checks before any state
changes occur. This isn't a best practice recommendation you can skip under
deadline pressure—it's how the ERC-3643 standard works at the protocol level.
When Alice tries to transfer bond tokens to Bob, the transaction either
completes fully or reverts completely. There's no partial transfer, no "pending
compliance review," no cleanup operation to reverse an improper transaction.

<Mermaid
  chart={`
flowchart TB
    INIT(Alice Initiates<br/>Token Transfer to Bob)
    CHECK1{Alice Has<br/>Verified Identity?}
    CHECK2{Bob Has<br/>Verified Identity?}
    CHECK3{Bob Meets<br/>Eligibility Requirements?}
    CHECK4{Transfer Within<br/>Holding Limits?}
    CHECK5{No Asset-Wide<br/>Restrictions?}
    EXECUTE[Execute Transfer<br/>Update Blockchain State]
    REVERT[Revert Transaction<br/>Return Reason Code]
    
    INIT --> CHECK1
    CHECK1 -->|Yes| CHECK2
    CHECK1 -->|No| REVERT
    CHECK2 -->|Yes| CHECK3
    CHECK2 -->|No| REVERT
    CHECK3 -->|Yes| CHECK4
    CHECK3 -->|No| REVERT
    CHECK4 -->|Yes| CHECK5
    CHECK4 -->|No| REVERT
    CHECK5 -->|Yes| EXECUTE
    CHECK5 -->|No| REVERT
    
    style INIT fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECK1 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECK2 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECK3 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECK4 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECK5 fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EXECUTE fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style REVERT fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
`}
/>

The smart contract verifies whether Alice's wallet links to a verified identity,
whether Bob's wallet links to a verified identity, and whether Bob meets the
specific eligibility requirements for this asset—accreditation status,
jurisdiction restrictions, or institutional qualifications. The system checks
whether the transfer violates holding limits, lockup periods, or concentration
rules that prevent a single investor from dominating ownership. Finally, the
contract confirms no asset-wide restrictions are currently in force, such as
trading halts or emergency freezes imposed by compliance officers.

If any check fails, the transfer reverts immediately. The blockchain state
doesn't change, there's no "undo" process needed because state never changed in
the first place, and the transaction emits a reason code explaining exactly
which rule prevented the transfer. This ex-ante control is what regulators want
to see—compliance isn't detected and corrected after violations occur, it's
enforced before execution so violations become structurally impossible.

### Identity registry and portable credentials eliminate repetitive verification

How many times have your investors complained about repeating KYC verification
for every single investment opportunity? ATK implements reusable digital
identity that works across all assets an investor is eligible to hold. When an
investor completes KYC/AML verification for one bond offering, that verification
credential carries forward automatically to other investments on the platform.
Investors don't waste time repeating identity checks; their digital identity
accumulates verified credentials from trusted verifiers that travel with them.

Identity credentials are attestations about investor status signed by trusted
verifiers like KYC providers, legal counsel, or regulatory custodians. These
credentials might prove someone completed KYC verification to Level 2 standards
on a specific date, confirm an entity qualifies as an accredited investor under
Regulation D, attest an individual resides in a permitted jurisdiction, or
verify an institution meets qualified institutional buyer thresholds.
Credentials are revocable if circumstances change—such as sanctions list
additions—and have expiration dates requiring periodic renewal, like annual
accreditation refresh requirements.

The Identity Registry maintains the authoritative list of verified investors.
Only registered, verified identities can hold compliant assets; unknown wallet
addresses get rejected automatically before any transfer can succeed. This
architecture protects investor privacy while satisfying regulatory requirements.
Investor identity information doesn't live on public ledgers where anyone can
read it. Only cryptographic proofs of necessary credentials exist on-chain, with
detailed personally identifiable information held by trusted verifiers who
respond to legal requests. You satisfy both securities regulators who require
identity verification and privacy regulators who restrict PII exposure through
the same technical design.

<Callout type="default" title="For technical architects">
  ATK uses the OnchainID protocol for decentralized identity credentials. See
  [Identity & Compliance
  Architecture](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/identity-compliance) for
  technical implementation details on claim structures, verification flows, and
  privacy-preserving designs.
</Callout>

### Jurisdictional rule templates adapt to regulatory change without redeployment

Different jurisdictions have fundamentally different rules that you can't
ignore. US Regulation D requires accredited investors for private placements
with specific income and net worth thresholds. EU MiFID II has its own investor
classification schemes that don't map cleanly to US definitions. Singapore MAS
imposes fit-and-proper requirements under distinct regulatory frameworks. When
regulations change—and they always do—platforms that hardcode compliance rules
into smart contracts face expensive redeployment cycles or regulatory
violations.

ATK's Compliance Engine implements jurisdictional requirements as configurable
rule modules that compliance officers activate for specific assets without
touching smart contract code. The Rule Library provides frameworks for US
compliance (Regulation D, Regulation S), EU requirements (MiCA, MiFID II),
Singapore MAS rules under the Payment Services Act and Securities and Futures
Act, UK FCA requirements, and other major jurisdictions. These aren't generic
"add a rule" interfaces—they're purpose-built modules encoding actual regulatory
requirements developed with legal expertise.

Configurable compliance modules enforce geographic restrictions through country
whitelists or blacklists, investor limits capping the maximum number of holders
or concentration per holder, transfer restrictions implementing lock-up periods
and vesting schedules, holding requirements preventing transfers before minimum
holding periods expire, and trading venue restrictions limiting transfers to
approved exchanges. When new regulations take effect, compliance updates happen
through the rule engine without smart contract redeployment or token migration.
The policy updates and affected assets inherit new rules automatically, giving
you regulatory agility that static contract deployments can't match.

### Audit trails provide regulatory examination evidence

How confident are you that your compliance program would survive a detailed
regulatory examination? ATK generates immutable audit records for every
compliance decision with the information regulators actually request during
investigations. Each record captures the transaction ID identifying which
transfer or operation was evaluated, the precise timestamp with block number
showing exactly when the check occurred, the parties involved identifying who
initiated the transaction and who the counterparty was, and which OnchainID
claims were evaluated to verify identity and eligibility.

The system records which compliance modules were checked and their results,
whether the outcome allowed or denied the transaction with specific reason
codes, and any administrator actions if manual overrides occurred—documenting
who approved the override and their documented justification. Regulators
reviewing your compliance program can query these records programmatically and
export machine-readable reports showing every transaction attempt, every
eligibility check, and every compliance decision over any requested time period.

This isn't compliance theater where you produce documents after regulators ask
uncomfortable questions. This is the evidence base that survives regulatory
examination because it's cryptographically tamper-proof, automatically generated
without human intervention, and complete from day one of operations. Your
observability dashboards provide real-time visibility into compliance
metrics—transaction approval rates, common rejection reasons, identity
verification throughput—so you spot patterns before they become regulatory
problems.

## Identity verification and KYC/AML integration

### How investor onboarding works

ATK integrates with professional KYC/AML providers who specialize in identity
verification, sanctions screening, politically exposed person (PEP) checks, and
adverse media monitoring. You're not building verification infrastructure from
scratch or trusting unverified self-attestations that regulators reject. The
platform routes verification to specialists with established regulatory
relationships and proven track records.

<Mermaid
  chart={`
flowchart TB
    START(Investor Visits<br/>Onboarding Portal)
    DOCS(Submit Personal Info<br/>& Documentation)
    KYC(KYC Provider<br/>Verification)
    CHECKS{Verification<br/>Checks}
    REVIEW[Compliance Officer<br/>Review]
    APPROVE{Approved?}
    CLAIMS[Add Identity Claims<br/>to OnchainID]
    REGISTER[Register Wallet<br/>in Identity Registry]
    ACCESS[Access to<br/>Compliant Assets]
    REJECT[Rejection Notice<br/>& Documentation]
    
    START --> DOCS
    DOCS --> KYC
    KYC --> CHECKS
    CHECKS -->|Identity Verification| REVIEW
    CHECKS -->|Sanctions Screening| REVIEW
    CHECKS -->|PEP Checks| REVIEW
    REVIEW --> APPROVE
    APPROVE -->|Yes| CLAIMS
    CLAIMS --> REGISTER
    REGISTER --> ACCESS
    APPROVE -->|No| REJECT
    
    style START fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style KYC fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CHECKS fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style REVIEW fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style APPROVE fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CLAIMS fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style REGISTER fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ACCESS fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style REJECT fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
`}
/>

Investors visit your white-labeled onboarding portal branded to your
organization and provide personal information along with required documentation
like passports and proof of address. The platform routes verification requests
to integrated KYC providers who perform identity verification, sanctions checks,
and PEP screening with results returning to your platform including risk scoring
and attestations. Your compliance officer reviews results and either approves or
rejects the application based on your risk policies. Approved investors receive
identity claims added to their OnchainID and their wallet address gets
registered in the Identity Registry, granting them access to interact with
compliant assets.

For institutional investors, the process extends to corporate KYC/KYB
verification including beneficial ownership verification, entity structure
documentation, authorized signer verification, and institutional due diligence
questionnaires. The framework handles both individual and institutional
onboarding through the same architectural pattern with different verification
requirements.

### Ongoing monitoring maintains claim accuracy

Identity verification isn't one-and-done because investor circumstances change
over time. ATK supports periodic reverification requirements, continuous
monitoring for adverse events like sanctions list additions, and claim
expiration requiring renewal to ensure credentials remain current. If a KYC
provider flags an investor due to sanctions list addition or criminal
proceedings, their claims get revoked automatically and immediately.

Revoked claims don't confiscate tokens or seize assets—investors retain
ownership of their holdings. However, they cannot transfer tokens until the
compliance issue is resolved and their identity is re-verified. This is exactly
how regulated securities should behave when investor eligibility changes.
Accreditation claims have expiration dates because a verified accredited
investor from 2022 might not qualify in 2025 due to changed financial
circumstances. The platform enforces claim freshness requirements and prompts
reverification when credentials near expiration, preventing expired credentials
from enabling improper transfers.

### Privacy and data protection balance transparency with protection

GDPR, PDPA, and other privacy regulations constrain how identity information is
handled, creating apparent tension with securities regulations requiring
identity verification. ATK resolves this tension through privacy-conscious
architecture that satisfies both requirements simultaneously. Only hashes and
cryptographic claims live on-chain where anyone can verify their validity
without exposing underlying personal data. Detailed identity documents are
stored encrypted with granular access controls restricting who can view
sensitive information.

The platform supports the right to be forgotten required by privacy
regulations—personal data can be deleted while maintaining transaction history
by pseudonymizing identities after data deletion. Investors control selective
disclosure, choosing which verifiers see which information rather than
broadcasting everything publicly. You can deploy in specific jurisdictions
matching data residency requirements to comply with local data protection laws.
This architecture gives you compliance with securities regulations and privacy
regulations simultaneously through intentional design choices, not through lucky
coincidence.

## Security architecture and threat mitigation

### Multi-signature governance eliminates single points of failure

ATK assumes individual credentials will eventually be compromised through
phishing, social engineering, device theft, or insider threats. Security is
layered so that no single person can cause catastrophic loss even if their
credentials are fully compromised. Multi-signature treasury controls require
M-of-N approval for sensitive operations, ensuring multiple independent parties
must coordinate for any high-risk action.

Token minting or burning requires 2-of-3 administrator approval so no single
admin can inflate supply or destroy value unilaterally. Large transfers require
3-of-5 treasury approval with thresholds set based on your risk tolerance.
Emergency freeze operations require 2-of-2 executive approval ensuring both
operational and compliance leadership agree before halting trading. Smart
contract upgrades require 3-of-5 governance approval preventing a single
compromised account from deploying malicious contract logic.

Role-Based Access Control defines exactly what each role can do, following the
principle of least privilege where users receive only the permissions necessary
for their responsibilities. Super admins configure platform settings, assign
roles, and manage global configurations but can't directly move assets.
Compliance officers approve investors, manage identity credentials, and
configure compliance rules but can't access treasury funds. Treasury managers
process asset operations, handle distribution processing, and manage reserves
but can't change compliance rules or approve new investors. Support agents have
read-only access to assist users but cannot modify any state or approve
transactions. Auditors have read-only access to all records for compliance
review without operational permissions.

### Hardware security and institutional custody protect high-value keys

How comfortable would your CFO be storing private keys controlling millions of
dollars in assets on a developer's laptop? Private keys controlling substantial
value require institutional-grade protection meeting the same standards banks
use for cryptographic material. ATK is architected to integrate with hardware
security modules (HSMs) that store keys in tamper-resistant devices meeting
banking standards like FIPS 140-2 Level 3 or higher (integration roadmap).

Hardware security advantages include private keys that never leave secure
hardware enclaves, cryptographic operations that happen inside tamper-proof
devices, physical security controls including locks and sensors and destruction
mechanisms protecting against theft, audit logs tracking every use of every
private key, and cryptographic evidence proving exactly which keys signed which
transactions. For institutions with existing custody relationships they trust
and regulators have approved, ATK integrates with enterprise custodians
including Fireblocks, Coinbase Custody, Copper, and Metaco (integration
roadmap). The goal is letting institutions keep existing, approved custody
arrangements while gaining ATK's lifecycle management capabilities.

Hardware security and enterprise custody integration reduce the primary digital
asset risk—private key theft or loss—to levels acceptable for institutional
balance sheet risk management. This addresses the single biggest objection risk
committees raise when evaluating blockchain platforms: "How do we protect the
keys?"

<Callout type="default" title="For technical teams">
  See [Security Architecture](/docs/architecture/quality/security-validation)
  for HSM integration specifications, custody provider API requirements, and key
  ceremony procedures.
</Callout>

### Network security and monitoring detect attacks before damage occurs

Production security hardening includes TLS encryption for all API communications
using modern cipher suites that prevent man-in-the-middle attacks. API
authentication via OAuth 2.0 and OIDC with short-lived tokens minimizes
credential theft impact. Rate limiting prevents abuse and denial-of-service
attacks by throttling suspicious traffic patterns. IP allowlisting restricts
administrative operations to known networks, preventing remote attacks even with
stolen credentials. DDoS protection through Cloudflare or equivalent edge
networks absorbs attack traffic before it reaches your infrastructure. Web
application firewalls protect against common vulnerabilities like SQL injection
and cross-site scripting. Secrets management via HashiCorp Vault or cloud
provider secret stores prevents credentials from appearing in code or
configuration files.

Monitoring and incident response capabilities ensure you detect problems quickly
and respond effectively. SIEM integration sends security events to centralized
monitoring systems where correlation rules detect complex attack patterns. Alert
rules identify suspicious patterns like repeated failed login attempts or
unusual transaction volumes that might indicate account compromise. On-call
rotations ensure 24/7 incident response capability so security events receive
immediate attention regardless of time or day. Incident playbooks define precise
response procedures for security events, eliminating confusion during
high-stress situations. Quarterly tabletop exercises test incident response
readiness and identify procedural weaknesses before real incidents occur.

Your observability dashboards provide real-time security monitoring showing
authentication attempt patterns, transaction velocity by user, rule evaluation
latency that might indicate attacks, and system health metrics across all
components. This visibility transforms security from reactive firefighting to
proactive threat detection.

### Operational security and recovery procedures handle inevitable failures

Bad things will happen because they always do in production systems. Systems
will fail due to infrastructure problems or software bugs. Keys might be
compromised through sophisticated attacks. Staff will make mistakes under
pressure or through simple human error. ATK includes documented procedures for
recovery that turn potential disasters into manageable incidents.

Key compromise response procedures start by detecting compromise through
automated monitoring or self-reporting, immediately freezing affected operations
to prevent further damage, executing key rotation procedures to invalidate
compromised credentials, investigating the scope of compromise to understand
what attackers accessed, notifying affected parties per regulatory disclosure
requirements, and documenting the incident for regulators and auditors with
timeline and remediation steps.

System failure recovery relies on high-availability deployment across multiple
availability zones ensuring no single infrastructure failure causes total
outage, automated failover for database and API services that activates without
human intervention, regular database backups with tested restore procedures
validated through periodic recovery drills, disaster recovery sites in separate
geographic regions protecting against regional disasters, and documented
recovery time objectives (RTO) and recovery point objectives (RPO) that set
clear expectations for restoration timelines.

Smart contract upgrade procedures use proxy patterns allowing logic updates
without changing token contract addresses that would break integrations.
Upgrades require multi-signature governance approval preventing unauthorized
changes. Changes deploy first to testnet for validation with thorough testing
before production exposure. Mainnet upgrades happen during planned maintenance
windows with advance user notification. Rollback capability exists if issues are
discovered post-deployment, enabling quick recovery from upgrade problems.

## Standards, certifications, and regulatory alignment

### Industry standards provide interoperability and best practices

ATK implements standards that enable interoperability with existing financial
infrastructure and demonstrate alignment with industry best practices. The
platform implements ERC-3643 (T-REX standard) for permissioned token transfers
with embedded compliance, ISO 20022 financial messaging standard as
architectural design target for payment integration, OpenID Connect for identity
federation allowing single sign-on across systems, OAuth 2.0 authorization
framework for secure API access, and FIDO2/WebAuthn strong authentication
standards eliminating password vulnerabilities.

These aren't checkbox features—they're architectural choices that determine how
the platform integrates with broader financial infrastructure and whether
institutions can adopt it within existing operational frameworks.

### Regulatory framework alignment supports global deployment

The platform architecture supports compliance with major regulatory frameworks
across jurisdictions. EU MiCA (Markets in Crypto-Assets) regulation for
tokenized instruments has specific requirements the compliance engine addresses.
EU GDPR data protection and privacy requirements are satisfied through
privacy-preserving identity architecture. US Securities Act Regulation D and
Regulation S compliance templates encode actual regulatory requirements rather
than generic rule engines. Singapore MAS Payment Services Act and Securities and
Futures Act requirements are supported through jurisdiction-specific modules. UK
FCA Financial Conduct Authority rules for digital securities can be configured
through the rule engine. GCC regulations from Gulf Cooperation Council financial
authorities are addressable through configurable compliance modules.

This regulatory coverage doesn't guarantee automatic compliance—you still need
legal counsel reviewing your specific implementation. However, the architecture
was designed to make compliance achievable rather than requiring you to work
around platform limitations.

### Security certifications demonstrate operational maturity

Organizations deploying ATK typically pursue certifications that demonstrate
operational maturity to regulators, auditors, and institutional customers. SOC 2
Type II attestation covers service organization controls for security,
availability, and confidentiality through independent audit. ISO 27001
information security management system certification demonstrates systematic
security practices. Smart contract audits provide third-party security review of
contract code by specialized blockchain security firms. Penetration testing
through regular external security assessments identifies vulnerabilities before
attackers exploit them. Regulatory examinations through cooperation with
securities regulators reviewing operations validate that compliance claims match
operational reality.

These aren't automatic with the platform—they're organizational certifications
your deployment pursues with ATK's architecture supporting the requirements
rather than fighting against them.

## What this means for adoption

Risk committees approve platforms that demonstrate control through evidence, not
promises. What evidence will you show yours? ATK provides compliance audit
trails showing every eligibility check, every identity verification, and every
rule evaluation with tamper-proof records regulators trust. Security controls
with multi-signature operations and planned HSM integration eliminate single
points of failure. Regulatory alignment via jurisdiction-specific rule templates
reduces legal review costs and implementation timelines. Privacy protection
balances transparency with data protection requirements through intentional
architectural choices. Operational resilience through high availability and
disaster recovery ensures business continuity during infrastructure failures.

When you present ATK to your risk committee, you're presenting a platform
designed from inception for regulated financial instruments with proper
institutional controls—not a developer experiment retrofitted with compliance
features after launch. The observability dashboards give your operations team
real-time visibility into system health, compliance metrics, and security
events. The monitoring capabilities detect problems before they become
regulatory incidents.

Compliance is embedded from the start. Security is built into the architecture.
Privacy coexists with transparency. These aren't features you enable—they're
architectural foundations that enable institutional adoption at scale.

## Where to next

- **[ATK overview](/docs/executive-overview/atk-overview)** – Platform features
  and capabilities across the asset lifecycle
- **[Architecture](/docs/architecture/system-architecture)** – Technical details
  on system design and component interactions
- **[Glossary](/docs/executive-overview/glossary)** – Key terms and definitions
  for compliance and security concepts
