---
title: Glossary
description:
  Key terminology for digital asset platforms and tokenization. These terms
  connect directly to DALP lifecycle capabilities—from DvP settlement and vault
  custody to automated yield distribution—giving you the vocabulary to evaluate
  platform features and operational dashboards.
pageTitle: Glossary of tokenization and DALP terminology
tags: [glossary, reference, definitions, terminology]
---

## Core tokenization concepts

The foundation of digital asset platforms rests on a few key innovations that
make traditional finance programmable. These concepts underpin every feature in
DALP—from compliance automation to instant settlement—and appear throughout
observability dashboards when you're monitoring platform health.

**Asset tokenization**: Converting ownership rights in real-world assets into
digital tokens on a blockchain. The token represents the same legal rights as
traditional instruments but enables instant transfer and automated compliance.
For example, a bond token carries identical coupon payment rights but settles
through DvP vaults rather than wire transfers.

**Blockchain**: A distributed ledger technology where transactions are recorded
in blocks and cryptographically linked. Provides immutable audit trails and
eliminates single points of failure. Every transaction visible in your
observability dashboards is anchored to a specific block for tamper-proof
verification.

**Smart contract**: Self-executing code on a blockchain that automatically
enforces rules and executes transactions when conditions are met. Enables
programmable compliance and automated corporate actions. For instance, a bond
smart contract distributes coupon payments to all token holders proportionally
without manual intervention—you'll see these distributions as events in the
yield management dashboard.

**Token**: A digital representation of an asset on a blockchain. Security tokens
represent ownership or financial rights in regulated assets like bonds,
equities, or fund units. Each token interaction (transfer, lock, redemption)
generates metrics tracked in the cap table and compliance dashboards.

## Compliance and identity

Regulated assets demand verified identities and automated rule enforcement at
every transfer. This section covers the identity infrastructure that makes
compliance invisible to users while remaining auditable for regulators. When you
review compliance metrics in observability dashboards, these are the mechanisms
generating those pass/fail statistics.

**ERC-3643**: A token standard specifically designed for permissioned
securities. Ensures compliance checks happen before every transfer by linking
tokens to verified identities. The compliance dashboard shows real-time rule
evaluation stats powered by this standard.

**OnchainID**: A decentralized identity protocol where verified claims about an
investor (KYC status, accreditation, jurisdiction) are cryptographically linked
to their wallet address. These claims feed the compliance engine that decides
whether a transfer can proceed.

**Identity registry**: A system that maps wallet addresses to verified
identities and eligibility criteria. Only registered addresses can interact with
compliant assets. Observability dashboards track registration rates and identity
verification status across your investor base.

**KYC/AML**: Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering procedures required by
regulators. Verifies investor identity and screens against sanctions lists.
Completion rates and verification latency appear as metrics in operational
dashboards.

**Accredited investor**: An individual or entity meeting financial thresholds
(income, net worth, or sophistication) allowing participation in private
securities offerings under US regulations. Identity claims capture accreditation
status, enabling automated eligibility checks at transfer time.

## Platform architecture

DALP integrates lifecycle management, compliance, custody, and settlement into
one coherent system—eliminating the vendor sprawl that creates operational gaps
and blind spots. These architectural components power the unified observability
stack that gives you real-time visibility into every aspect of your digital
asset operations.

**DALP (Digital Asset Lifecycle Platform)**: Unified infrastructure managing the
complete lifecycle of tokenized assets from issuance through redemption.
Integrates compliance, custody, settlement, and servicing in one system rather
than cobbling together multiple vendors. The observability stack monitors all
DALP components, surfacing performance and health metrics in centralized
dashboards.

**SMART Protocol (SettleMint Adaptable Regulated Token)**: The compliance
framework underlying all ATK assets. Extends ERC-3643 with modular compliance
rules and identity management. Every compliance check visible in dashboards runs
through SMART Protocol validation logic.

**Compliance engine**: The policy enforcement system that evaluates every
transfer against configurable rules before execution. Non-compliant transactions
revert automatically. Observability dashboards track rule evaluation latency,
pass rates, and rejection reasons for troubleshooting and audits.

**Factory contract**: A smart contract template that deploys new asset tokens
with pre-configured compliance and governance structures, accelerating time to
market. Deployment metrics (time to issue, configuration errors) feed into
operational dashboards.

## Settlement and operations

Traditional settlement introduces counterparty risk and multi-day delays. DALP
uses atomic DvP settlement through secure vaults to eliminate these friction
points. When you monitor settlement latency in observability dashboards, you're
watching these mechanisms execute in real time—typically under two seconds per
transaction.

**T+0 settlement**: Same-day settlement where ownership transfers complete on
the day of the transaction, versus traditional T+2 (two business days after
trade date). DvP mechanisms in DALP achieve settlement in seconds, surfacing
latency metrics in performance dashboards.

**Atomic settlement / DvP (Delivery versus Payment)**: Simultaneous exchange
where the asset and payment both complete or both fail together, eliminating
counterparty risk during settlement windows. DALP vaults hold assets and payment
tokens until both parties meet conditions—dashboards show vault utilization and
settlement success rates.

**Stablecoin**: A cryptocurrency pegged to fiat currency (like USD) at a 1:1
ratio, typically backed by reserves. Enables on-chain payments and settlement
within DvP vaults. Liquidity and reserve metrics appear in treasury dashboards.

**Gas fee**: Transaction cost on a blockchain network, paid to validators who
process and confirm transactions. Observability dashboards track gas consumption
per operation type (transfer, yield distribution, redemption) to optimize
transaction batching and cost efficiency.

## Corporate actions

Automated yield distribution and corporate action processing distinguish DALP
from basic tokenization platforms. These capabilities execute through smart
contracts that enforce fairness and auditability—every coupon payment, NAV
update, or redemption generates events and metrics visible in lifecycle
dashboards.

**Coupon payment**: Periodic interest payment on a bond, distributed to all
token holders proportionally to their holdings. DALP's yield management module
automates distribution through smart contracts, surfacing payment schedules,
execution status, and recipient breakdowns in observability dashboards.

**NAV (Net Asset Value)**: The per-share value of a fund, calculated by dividing
total assets minus liabilities by the number of shares outstanding. NAV updates
trigger revaluation events tracked in fund performance dashboards, feeding into
redemption calculations.

**Cap table**: Capitalization table showing all holders of an asset and their
ownership percentages. Blockchain provides real-time cap table visibility—DALP
dashboards offer live views of holder distributions, concentration metrics, and
transfer velocity.

**Redemption**: The process of converting tokens back to cash or underlying
assets, typically at maturity for bonds or upon fund exit. Redemption workflows
in DALP use DvP vaults to ensure atomic exchange, with success rates and
settlement times tracked in lifecycle dashboards.

## Regulatory frameworks

Operating across jurisdictions requires navigating different regulatory regimes.
These frameworks shape compliance rule configuration in DALP—when you review
compliance dashboards segmented by jurisdiction, you're seeing how these
regulations translate into automated policy enforcement.

**MiCA (Markets in Crypto-Assets)**: European Union regulation providing
comprehensive framework for crypto-assets including security tokens and
stablecoins. Compliance rules for EU investors enforce MiCA requirements at
transfer time.

**Regulation D**: US SEC rule allowing private securities offerings to
accredited investors without full registration requirements. Identity claims
capture Reg D eligibility, enabling automated checks that appear as rule
evaluations in compliance dashboards.

**Regulation S**: US SEC rule permitting securities offerings outside the United
States without registration, subject to restrictions. Geographic claims and
holding period rules enforce Reg S compliance automatically.

**MAS (Monetary Authority of Singapore)**: Singapore's central bank and
financial regulatory authority, which has established clear frameworks for
digital assets. MAS-compliant deployments configure jurisdiction-specific rules
visible in regional compliance dashboards.

## Security and custody

Institutional custody demands defense-in-depth: multisig controls, HSM key
storage, and granular RBAC permissions. DALP vaults implement these safeguards
while remaining auditable through observability dashboards that track signing
operations, key rotation, and access patterns.

**Multi-signature wallet (multisig)**: A wallet requiring multiple private key
signatures to authorize transactions, implementing maker-checker controls and
segregation of duties. DvP vaults use multisig for treasury
operations—dashboards track signature collection latency and approval workflows.

**Hardware Security Module (HSM)**: Tamper-resistant physical device that
securely stores cryptographic keys and performs signing operations, meeting
bank-grade security requirements. Observability dashboards monitor HSM health,
signing latency, and key usage patterns for anomaly detection.

**Role-based access control (RBAC)**: Permission system where user capabilities
are determined by assigned roles, ensuring proper segregation of duties. RBAC
policies govern who can issue assets, approve transfers, or configure compliance
rules—access logs and permission audits appear in security dashboards.

**Private key**: Cryptographic secret that controls access to a blockchain
wallet. Losing the private key means losing access to assets permanently.
Institutional deployments store keys in HSMs and enforce key rotation policies
tracked through security dashboards.

## Where to next

- [Introduction](/docs/executive-overview/introduction) – Start with what
  tokenization means for your business
- [Market challenges](/docs/executive-overview/market-challenges) – Understand
  the pain points ATK addresses
- [Architecture section](/docs/architecture/system-architecture) – Dive deeper
  into technical implementation
