---
title: Market pain points
description:
  Current tokenization projects face recurring obstacles—vendor fragmentation,
  compliance systems disconnected from token transfers, custody solutions that
  don't meet institutional standards, and settlement delays that negate
  blockchain's speed advantages. This page identifies these pain points so you
  can evaluate whether proposed platforms actually solve them.
pageTitle: The challenges in today's digital asset landscape
tags: [concept, challenges, pain-points, finance, compliance]
---

## Key terms

- **Integration point**: Connection between separate systems requiring custom
  development and ongoing maintenance
- **Ex-ante control**: Compliance checks that happen before a transaction
  executes, preventing violations
- **Ex-post control**: Compliance checks that happen after execution, requiring
  reversal if violations are found

See the [Glossary](/docs/executive-overview/glossary) for complete definitions.

## Vendor fragmentation creates integration burden

Walk into any tokenization project and you'll see the same pattern: five or more
vendors stitched together with integration code, manual handoffs, and
operational complexity.

<Mermaid
  chart={`
flowchart TB
    ORG(Your Organization)
    
    V1(Token Creation<br/>Platform)
    V2(KYC/Onboarding<br/>Provider)
    V3(Custody Wallet<br/>Service)
    V4(Trading/Marketplace<br/>Platform)
    V5(Settlement & Banking<br/>Integration)
    V6(Reporting & Compliance<br/>Dashboard)
    
    ISSUES1(Integration<br/>Failures)
    ISSUES2(Data<br/>Reconciliation)
    ISSUES3(Vendor<br/>Coordination)
    
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V1
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V2
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V3
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V4
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V5
    ORG -.Manual Integration.-> V6
    
    V1 -.API Calls.-> V2
    V2 -.API Calls.-> V3
    V3 -.API Calls.-> V4
    V4 -.API Calls.-> V5
    V5 -.API Calls.-> V6
    
    V1 --> ISSUES1
    V3 --> ISSUES2
    V5 --> ISSUES3
    
    style ORG fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V1 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V2 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V3 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V4 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V5 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style V6 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ISSUES1 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:3px,color:#fff
    style ISSUES2 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:3px,color:#fff
    style ISSUES3 fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:3px,color:#fff
`}
/>

One vendor handles token creation. Another manages investor onboarding and KYC
checks. A third provides custody wallets. A fourth runs the marketplace or
trading platform. A fifth handles settlement and bank connectivity. Perhaps
there's a sixth for reporting and compliance dashboards.

### Integration as ongoing liability

Each integration is a point of failure. When settlement breaks at 2 a.m., three
vendors blame each other while your operations team frantically debugs which API
changed without warning.

Procurement alone takes months as legal reviews five contracts, InfoSec
evaluates five security questionnaires, and finance negotiates five SLAs.

Development velocity collapses because every new feature touches multiple
systems. Want to add a new asset class? You're coordinating updates across the
entire stack. Need to change a compliance rule? All five vendors must support
it.

### No single source of truth

There's no unified view of ownership, compliance status, or transaction history.
Your team spends more time reconciling data between systems than actually
servicing assets. When auditors ask for proof of compliance, you're compiling
reports from five different platforms and hoping they align.

## Off-chain compliance creates legal risk

Many projects run compliance logic off the blockchain in spreadsheets and
middleware. The token itself doesn't know who should be allowed to hold it.

A typical flow: an investor buys tokens, the transfer executes on-chain
instantly, and then—sometime later—a compliance officer checks whether that
investor should have been eligible. If they weren't, now you're unwinding a
transaction that's already settled, consumed gas, and potentially generated tax
events.

### False positives block legitimate investors

Legitimate investors get blocked because the off-chain system can't verify their
status in real time. Support tickets pile up. Your compliance team manually
overrides blocks while trying not to accidentally approve someone they
shouldn't.

### Permanent evidence of violations

Regulators see this architecture and immediately understand the problem: there's
no ex-ante control. The ledger records transactions that violate rules, creating
evidence of non-compliance that lives permanently on an immutable blockchain.

Different tokens on the same platform might have different compliance rules, but
those rules live in external databases that can drift out of sync with actual
token logic. You think a transfer restriction is enforced, but the middleware
got updated and now there's a gap.

## Custody solutions don't meet institutional standards

Most blockchain platforms default to single-key wallets. One private key
controls the entire treasury. Whoever has that key can transfer all assets with
no checks, no approvals, no audit trail beyond "the key signed this
transaction."

Banks don't operate that way. Traditional custody involves segregation of
duties, dual control, maker-checker workflows, transaction limits, and formal
approval processes.

### Key loss is permanent

Lose a blockchain private key and those assets are gone. Permanently. There's no
customer service line to call, no fraud protection, no insurance payout unless
you've purchased specialized crypto custody coverage with significant premiums.

### Missing enterprise features

Even when platforms offer multi-signature wallets, the implementation often
lacks enterprise capabilities. There's no policy engine defining who can approve
what types of transactions. There's no time-based locks or velocity limits.

Recovery procedures are typically "hope you backed up your seed phrase and
stored it securely." Enterprise custody requires formal key ceremony processes,
geographic distribution of key shards, time-locked recovery mechanisms, and
clear legal accountability for who's responsible if something goes wrong.

When a risk committee asks, "What happens if your CTO gets hit by a bus?" the
answer can't be "we hope someone finds the password." That's an automatic
project shutdown.

## Settlement delays persist despite blockchain speed

Blockchain promises instant settlement. Technically, the token does move
instantly on-chain. But the cash leg still settles on traditional banking rails
that operate on T+1 or T+2 cycles.

### Cash-token timing mismatch

Your interface might show "transaction complete," but behind the scenes, there's
a gap between when the token transferred and when the cash actually cleared.
During that window, you have counterparty risk. One party could default, a bank
could freeze an account, or compliance could flag the transaction forcing a
reversal.

Operations teams spend hours reconciling blockchain transactions against bank
statements, tracking which cash transfers cleared and which are still pending.
The promise of instant settlement evaporates into the same reconciliation work
that plagues traditional markets.

### Atomic settlement requires on-chain cash

True atomic settlement—delivery versus payment (DvP) where both legs happen
simultaneously or neither happens at all—requires both assets and cash to be
on-chain. Most platforms don't provide tokenized cash integration, regulated
stablecoin connectivity, or preparation for Central Bank Digital Currency when
those become available.

Even when tokenized cash exists, cross-chain settlements remain challenging.
Your token lives on one network, their payment token lives on another, and now
you need a bridge that maintains compliance checks across both chains while
keeping the settlement atomic.

## Corporate actions remain manual

Imagine your tokenized bond pays quarterly coupons. The typical process: your
finance team exports a list of token holders from the blockchain explorer,
imports it into Excel, calculates pro-rata payments, generates wire transfer
instructions, sends them to the bank, manually logs each payment, and then
reconciles which payments cleared.

### Distribution complexity

Someone invariably gets missed because they acquired tokens between the snapshot
date and the payment date. Another holder's bank account information changed. A
third investor is in a jurisdiction that requires tax withholding, but nobody
flagged that until after the payment went out.

### Voting by spreadsheet

Shareholder votes require snapshotting token balances at a specific block,
exporting holder addresses, matching them to real-world identities, sending
voting instructions via email, tracking responses in another spreadsheet,
tallying votes manually, and hoping nobody challenges the results.

### Redemption workflows

An investor submits a redemption request via email or a web form. Someone
verifies they actually hold the tokens. Someone else checks whether there's
sufficient liquidity. A third person initiates the burn transaction on-chain. A
fourth person processes the cash payment. Everyone hopes the reconciliation
balances at month-end.

Stock splits, dividend distributions, rights offerings, tender offers—every
corporate action that's automated in traditional securities markets becomes a
custom project. Your operations team grows instead of shrinking.

## Enterprise integration requirements unmet

Banks and asset managers operate with strict IT controls. They use Active
Directory or Okta for identity management. They require single sign-on (SSO) so
employees don't manage separate credentials for every system. They enforce
multi-factor authentication (MFA) as standard policy. They need Security
Information and Event Management (SIEM) integration to feed all security events
into centralized monitoring.

### Shadow IT concerns

Many blockchain platforms assume you'll create new user accounts in their
system, manually provision access, and somehow duplicate your existing identity
infrastructure. InfoSec immediately flags this as shadow IT with uncontrolled
access.

### Data residency and deployment

Data residency requirements mean European customers need data stored in EU data
centers. Asian customers need data in their local region. Banks with specific
regulatory constraints need on-premises deployment. Blockchain platforms built
on public chains or single-region SaaS architectures can't accommodate these
requirements.

### Audit and compliance logging

Audit logging needs to capture everything: who accessed what data, who approved
what transactions, who changed what settings, with precise timestamps and
immutable evidence. Most platforms provide basic transaction logs, but
enterprise audit requirements go deeper—you need to prove not just what
happened, but who had access to make it happen.

### Integration with existing systems

Your core banking system, your fund administration platform, your ERP, your
CRM—all need to talk to the tokenization platform. When the platform provides
only basic REST APIs with limited documentation, you're building all the
integration code yourself.

## Network and permissioning constraints

Public blockchain networks work well for some use cases. But regulated
securities often require permissioned networks where only authorized
participants can run validators, submit transactions, or read the ledger.

### Deployment flexibility needed

Most tokenization platforms assume Ethereum mainnet or other public chains. When
a bank needs a private network or a consortium deployment, the platform either
doesn't support it or requires significant customization.

### Gas cost volatility

Gas fees on public networks create unpredictable operational costs. Ethereum gas
can spike to hundreds of dollars per transaction during congestion. That's
acceptable for high-value DeFi transactions, but when processing thousands of
small distributions, gas costs become prohibitive.

### Transaction throughput limits

Ethereum processes about 15 transactions per second. If you're distributing
tokens to 10,000 holders, that's over ten minutes of sequential transactions
unless you batch them—which most platforms don't support elegantly.

### Privacy conflicts

Regulated securities often can't disclose holder identities, transaction
amounts, or even the existence of certain trades on a public ledger. Private or
encrypted transactions add complexity that many platforms don't handle.

## Why this matters for your evaluation

If you're evaluating tokenization platforms, every pain point described here
will surface during your pilot. The fragmentation will become apparent during
vendor selection. The compliance gaps will emerge during regulatory review. The
custody concerns will get raised by your risk committee. The settlement delays
will frustrate operations. The corporate action complexity will hit during your
first distribution. The enterprise integration issues will get flagged by
InfoSec.

You can either cobble together point solutions and manage all the integration
complexity yourself, or adopt a unified platform architected from the beginning
to address these institutional requirements.

## Key takeaways

Understanding these market challenges helps you:

- **Evaluate platforms realistically** - Ask vendors how they address each
  specific pain point with concrete technical implementations
- **Avoid hidden costs** - Budget for integration, reconciliation, and
  operational overhead that fragmented solutions create
- **Set success criteria** - Define measurable outcomes (T+0 settlement %,
  compliance breach count, integration points) rather than feature checklists
- **Plan proof-of-concept scope** - Include realistic workflows that expose
  integration boundaries, compliance gaps, and custody requirements

The next logical step: understanding how Digital Asset Lifecycle Platforms
(DALPs) systematically address these challenges through unified architecture.

## Where to next

- [DALP solution](/docs/executive-overview/dalp-solution) – Learn how unified
  lifecycle platforms solve these problems
- [ATK overview](/docs/executive-overview/atk-overview) – See SettleMint's
  implementation in practice
- [Glossary](/docs/executive-overview/glossary) – Define technical terms
