---
title: Real-world use cases for asset tokenization
description:
  Illustrative scenarios showing how different industries or asset types utilize
  the ATK
navTitle: Use cases
tags: [concept, use-cases, scenarios, industry, examples]
---

<Callout type="info" title="Template guide">
  This page follows The Good Docs Project
  **[Concept](https://www.thegooddocsproject.dev/template/concept)** template.
</Callout>

## How different institutions use the platform

These scenarios illustrate real workflows that ATK enables today. Names and
specifics are illustrative, but the mechanics and outcomes reflect actual
production capabilities.

## Corporate bond issuance for capital markets

### The scenario

MidCorp Industries needs to raise $50 million through a three-year bond
offering. Traditional underwriting would take months of roadshows, weeks of
settlement, and ongoing manual processes for coupon payments and investor
communications. They want faster execution, broader access, and automated
servicing.

### How ATK handles it

**Term sheet to deployment in days**: MidCorp's treasury team uses the Asset
Designer to configure a bond token: $50 million principal, 5% annual coupon paid
quarterly, three-year maturity, USD denomination. They select Regulation D
compliance template to limit the offering to accredited US investors.

The platform generates the smart contract with compliance controls embedded.
MidCorp uploads their offering memorandum, which gets cryptographically hashed
and linked to the token metadata. The legal documentation lives permanently with
the asset.

**Investor onboarding with built-in compliance**: Accredited investors connect
through the Investor Portal and complete KYC verification via an integrated
provider. Their OnchainID gets updated with an accreditation claim. Only wallet
addresses linked to verified, accredited identities can receive bond tokens.

**Primary distribution**: MidCorp allocates tokens to a subscriber list. The
platform enforces that every recipient meets eligibility requirements.
Non-accredited addresses simply cannot receive tokens; the transfer reverts
automatically. No risk of accidental non-compliant distribution.

**Automated quarterly coupons**: Every quarter on the coupon date, the platform
calculates interest owed to each holder based on their proportional ownership.
Using integrated payment rails or tokenized cash, it distributes payments
automatically. Every holder receives their exact amount without manual
calculations or wire transfer instructions.

**Real-time cap table visibility**: MidCorp's IR team sees current ownership in
real time. No waiting for monthly reports from a transfer agent. When investors
trade bonds on secondary markets (if permitted), the cap table updates
immediately.

**Maturity and redemption**: At three years, the platform automatically handles
redemption: bond tokens get burned, principal plus final interest gets
distributed, and the issuance concludes with complete audit trails showing every
payment, every holder, every compliance check throughout the lifecycle.

### The outcomes

**Time savings**: Traditional bond issuance took 8-12 weeks from term sheet to
first settlement. With ATK, MidCorp went live in 10 days.

**Cost reduction**: Eliminated transfer agent fees for ongoing servicing,
reduced legal review time because compliance templates are pre-vetted, cut
operations overhead because corporate actions are automated.

**Broader access**: Secondary markets emerged because settlement happens
instantly. Institutional investors could trade positions knowing settlement
completes in minutes, not days.

**Compliance certainty**: Zero non-compliant transfers because only verified
accredited investors could hold tokens. Regulatory comfort increased
dramatically.

## Private equity fund tokenization

### The scenario

Apex Capital runs a $200 million venture fund with 80 institutional LPs.
Traditional fund administration is expensive, slow, and opaque. Quarterly
valuations take weeks to calculate and distribute. Capital calls and
distributions require manual processing. Secondary transfers between LPs are
nearly impossible due to paperwork complexity.

### How ATK handles it

**Fund unit creation**: Apex tokenizes their fund structure as equity tokens
representing limited partner units. Each token carries ownership rights, profit
sharing, and governance participation. The fund's operating agreement is
cryptographically linked to the token metadata.

**LP onboarding**: Institutional investors complete accredited investor
verification and qualified purchaser checks through the platform's identity
system. Their verified status enables participation across multiple Apex funds
without re-verification.

**Subscription processing**: When LPs commit capital, Apex issues fund tokens
representing their percentage ownership. The platform tracks committed versus
called capital, maintaining complex waterfall calculations that traditional fund
administrators charge quarterly fees to manage.

**NAV updates and performance tracking**: Monthly or quarterly, Apex updates the
net asset value in the platform. The NAV per token updates automatically for all
holders. Performance metrics—IRR, MOIC, quartile rankings—calculate
programmatically from on-chain transaction history.

**Automated distributions**: When portfolio companies exit or pay dividends,
Apex distributes proceeds proportionally to all token holders through automated
workflows. What used to require wire instructions to 80 different banks now
executes through programmable distribution with instant settlement.

**Management fee collection**: The platform automatically calculates management
fees based on committed capital or NAV according to the fund terms, deducts the
appropriate amount, and handles the transfer to Apex's treasury. No manual
invoicing or collection processes.

**Secondary trading among LPs**: When an LP wants to exit early, the platform
facilitates transfer to another qualified institutional investor. Compliance
checks ensure the buyer meets requirements. Settlement happens atomically.
Transfer restrictions in the fund documents are enforced programmatically, so
limited transfer windows or ROFR rights execute automatically.

### The outcomes

**Operational efficiency**: Fund administration costs dropped by 60% because NAV
calculations, distributions, fee collection, and LP reporting are automated.

**LP satisfaction**: Real-time holdings visibility and instant distributions
improved investor experience. Support inquiries about "where's my distribution?"
disappeared.

**Secondary liquidity**: What used to take 90 days and significant legal costs
now settles in hours with compliance built in. LPs value liquidity options, even
if used rarely.

## Real estate fractionalization

### The scenario

Highland Properties owns a $25 million office building in a major market. They
want to fractionalize ownership to enable smaller investors to participate while
maintaining professional property management and compliance controls.

### How ATK handles it

**Property tokenization as equity**: Highland creates 250,000 equity tokens,
each representing $100 of building ownership. Token holders receive proportional
rental income distributions and have voting rights on major property decisions.

**Investor eligibility and documentation**: The platform enforces that only
verified investors with appropriate accreditation levels can purchase tokens.
Property documents—purchase agreements, operating agreements, building
inspections, insurance policies—are hashed and linked to the token metadata for
permanent transparency.

**Fractional ownership**: Investors can purchase as few as 10 tokens ($1,000
investment) or as many as they want up to regulatory limits. The platform
enforces maximum ownership percentages to maintain distributed ownership.

**Rental income distributions**: Monthly rental income from tenants flows into
Highland's treasury. After deducting property management fees and reserves, the
platform distributes net income proportionally to all token holders.
Distributions happen automatically on a preset schedule.

**Property expenses and reserves**: Major repairs or capital improvements
require approval from token holders. Highland creates a governance proposal
through the platform. Token holders vote with their holdings weighted
proportionally. Approved expenses draw from reserves or trigger special
assessments distributed fairly among holders.

**Valuation updates**: Annual appraisals update the property's value in the
platform, adjusting the implied token value. Holders see current valuations
without requesting reports.

**Compliance with securities and real estate law**: The platform enforces both
securities regulations (accredited investor requirements) and any applicable
real estate regulations (ownership transfer restrictions, FIRPTA withholding for
foreign investors).

**Exit mechanisms**: When Highland eventually sells the building, sale proceeds
distribute automatically to all holders proportionally. Tokens are redeemed and
the holding concludes with complete documentation of every income distribution,
every expense, and every ownership change.

### The outcomes

**Democratized access**: Real estate institutional-quality investment became
available to smaller investors who couldn't deploy $25 million.

**Operational streamlining**: Distribution processing that used to take days of
manual work now happens automatically each month.

**Transparency**: Investors see property performance, expenses, and income in
real time rather than waiting for quarterly reports.

**Secondary market**: Token holders could sell positions to other qualified
investors, creating liquidity in an traditionally illiquid asset class.

## Bank-issued stablecoin for payment infrastructure

### The scenario

Regional Bank wants to issue a USD-backed stablecoin for commercial clients to
use in B2B payments, trade finance, and treasury management. They need
regulatory compliance, transparent reserves, and enterprise-grade controls.

### How ATK handles it

**Stablecoin deployment with reserve management**: Regional Bank creates a
stablecoin token pegged 1:1 to USD. Each token is backed by an actual dollar in
a segregated reserve account. The platform tracks reserve balances and enforces
that tokens cannot be minted without corresponding fiat deposits.

**Enterprise client onboarding**: Commercial clients complete corporate KYC/KYB
verification. Their legal entities are registered with the platform, and
authorized employees receive access to the treasury portal.

**Minting process**: When a client deposits $1 million into the reserve account,
Regional Bank's operations team verifies the deposit through their core banking
system. Once confirmed, the platform mints 1 million stablecoins to the client's
designated wallet. The reserve ratio stays balanced by construction.

**B2B payments and settlements**: Clients use stablecoins for vendor payments,
international transfers, and supply chain finance. Transactions settle instantly
on-chain with atomic finality. Payment instructions include invoice references,
purchase order numbers, and other business metadata.

**Transparency and auditability**: The platform provides real-time visibility
into total stablecoins issued, reserve balances, and reserve ratio. External
auditors can verify reserves without disrupting operations. Regulators get
read-only access to compliance dashboards.

**Redemption workflows**: When clients want to convert stablecoins back to fiat,
they initiate a redemption request. The platform burns tokens and triggers a
wire transfer from reserves to the client's bank account. The reserve ratio
updates automatically.

**Compliance controls**: Even though stablecoins are designed for broad use,
Regional Bank enforces transaction monitoring, AML screening, and sanctions list
checks. Suspicious activity triggers alerts for investigation. Geographic
restrictions prevent use in prohibited jurisdictions.

**Integration with existing systems**: The platform's APIs integrate with
Regional Bank's core banking system, treasury management platform, and
accounting systems. Stablecoin transactions appear alongside traditional banking
transactions in client portals.

### The outcomes

**Payment speed**: Cross-border B2B payments that took 3-5 days now settle in
seconds with finality.

**Cost reduction**: International wire fees disappeared. Treasury operations
costs dropped because reconciliation is real-time.

**Transparency**: Clients see reserve backing in real time, building confidence
in the stablecoin's stability.

**Regulatory acceptance**: Demonstrable compliance controls and transparent
reserves satisfied regulators. Regional Bank got approval to scale the program.

## Digital deposit certificates for retail banking

### The scenario

Metropolitan Bank wants to offer time deposits (certificates of deposit) as
digital tokens to tech-savvy retail customers while maintaining FDIC insurance
and regulatory compliance.

### How ATK handles it

**Deposit product configuration**: Metropolitan creates deposit tokens with
specific terms: 6-month maturity, 4% APY, minimum $1,000 deposit, maximum
$250,000 per customer to stay within FDIC coverage limits.

**Retail customer onboarding**: Customers complete standard KYC verification
through Metropolitan's existing processes. Their verification status links to
their OnchainID, enabling them to receive deposit tokens.

**Deposit and token issuance**: When a customer deposits $10,000 into a
designated account, Metropolitan verifies the funds cleared and then mints
10,000 deposit tokens to the customer's wallet. The tokens represent their claim
on the principal plus accrued interest.

**Time-lock enforcement**: The smart contract enforces the 6-month maturity.
Customers cannot redeem early (or, if early redemption is allowed, the smart
contract applies penalty calculations automatically).

**Interest accrual tracking**: The platform tracks interest accrued daily based
on the APY. Customers see current value including accumulated interest in real
time.

**Maturity and redemption**: At six months, the tokens become redeemable.
Customers initiate redemption through the portal. The platform burns tokens and
transfers principal plus interest to their designated bank account.

**FDIC compliance**: The platform enforces per-customer deposit limits and
maintains records required for FDIC coverage. All documentation is automatically
generated and archived.

**Collateral management**: Metropolitan maintains liquid reserves or collateral
backing the deposit tokens. The platform tracks reserve ratios and alerts
operations if reserves fall below policy thresholds.

### The outcomes

**Customer engagement**: Tech-forward customers appreciated blockchain-based
deposits as innovative while maintaining FDIC insurance and familiar banking
relationships.

**Operational efficiency**: Deposit lifecycle management automated completely.
No manual maturity tracking or redemption processing.

**Transparency**: Customers saw exact interest accrued daily rather than waiting
for statement dates.

**Compliance confidence**: Regulatory filings and FDIC reporting requirements
were satisfied through automated audit trails and data exports.

## Why these scenarios work

These use cases succeed because ATK provides unified lifecycle infrastructure.
You're not cobbling together issuance, compliance, custody, settlement, and
servicing from separate vendors. The platform handles the complete lifecycle,
which is why complex workflows like quarterly coupon payments or NAV
distributions happen automatically instead of requiring manual intervention.

Compliance is embedded at the asset level, not layered on afterward. Bond tokens
only transfer to accredited investors because the eligibility check is in the
transfer path. Fund tokens enforce holding restrictions because the smart
contract implements those rules. Stablecoins enforce monitoring requirements
because compliance modules are part of the architecture.

The platform adapts to different asset classes and regulatory frameworks without
requiring separate deployments. The same infrastructure manages bonds, funds,
real estate, stablecoins, and deposits because the SMART Protocol provides
unified compliance and the addon system handles asset-specific features.

The next section dives deeper into the compliance and security architecture that
enables these use cases to operate with institutional confidence and regulatory
acceptance.
