---
title: Issue an equity
description: Step-by-step guide to creating equity tokens with voting rights and
  shareholder management
pageTitle: How to issue an equity token (Company shares with voting)
tags: [how-to, equity, shares, voting, dividends]
---

## Overview

Deploy compliant equity tokens representing company ownership shares with
optional voting rights and dividend distributions. Manage your cap table through
the platform with automated compliance and shareholder governance.

**Primary audience:** Corporate secretaries, CFOs, startup founders  
**Secondary audience:** Investor relations teams, transfer agents

<Mermaid
  chart={
    "graph TB\n    A(Configure Token<br/>Parameters) --> B(Set Compliance<br/>Framework)\n    B --> C(Configure Voting<br/>if Enabled)\n    C --> D(Assign Operational<br/>Roles)\n    D --> E(Deploy Equity<br/>Contract)\n    E --> F(Issue Initial<br/>Allocation)\n    F --> G(Set Up Vesting<br/>if Needed)\n    G --> H{Governance<br/>Enabled?}\n    H -->|Yes| I(Create Proposals)\n    H -->|No| J(Monitor Cap Table)\n    I --> K(Shareholders Vote)\n    K --> L(Execute Approved<br/>Proposals)\n    J --> M(Process Secondary<br/>Transfers)\n    L --> M\n    M --> N(Manage Shareholder<br/>Lifecycle)\n    style A fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff\n    style E fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff\n    style F fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff\n    style I fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff\n    style K fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff\n    style M fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff"
  }
/>

## Before you start

**Prerequisites:**

- Completed [Getting started](/docs/user-guides/getting-started) onboarding
- Equity system factory deployed during onboarding
- Shareholder agreement and cap table prepared
- Regulatory framework determined (Reg D, Reg S, Reg A, or custom)

**Time estimate:** 15-20 minutes for equity deployment; additional time for
governance configuration

**Required knowledge:**

- Basic blockchain wallet operations
- Understanding of equity instruments and cap table management
- Familiarity with securities regulations
- Corporate governance basics (if enabling voting)

## Steps

### 1. Navigate to equity creation

From your dashboard, click **Asset Management** in the left sidebar, then select
**Equity** from the asset type list. You'll see any existing equity tokens
you've created along with a **Create New Equity Token** button at the top right.
Click that button to begin configuring your new share class.

![Equity creation navigation](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Asset Management section showing Equity category with existing equity tokens
list and Create New Equity Token button_

### 2. Configure token parameters

#### Basic token information

Start by defining your token's identity. The **token name** should include your
full legal entity name and share class to avoid confusion when you manage
multiple series—for example, "TechStartup Inc. Series A Preferred" clearly
distinguishes this from common stock or Series B. Enter a short **token symbol**
like "TECH-A" that will appear in wallet interfaces and on explorers.

The **decimals** field controls fractional ownership. Setting this to 0 creates
whole shares only (one token equals one full share), which matches traditional
cap tables. Setting it to 18 enables fractional ownership down to
0.000000000000000001 of a share, which is useful for micro-investing or ESOP
pools. Most corporate equity uses 0 decimals to keep shares countable and match
existing legal structures.

You can set an **initial supply** to mint shares immediately upon deployment, or
leave it at 0 and mint shares later after deployment completes. Minting on
deployment saves a transaction, but minting afterward gives you flexibility to
verify the contract configuration before issuing shares.

![Equity basic information](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Equity configuration form showing name, symbol, decimals, and initial supply
fields with validation_

#### Share class configuration

Next you'll define the properties that distinguish this equity class from others
in your cap table. The **share class type** determines default rights and
treatment. Common stock typically carries voting rights and represents standard
ownership, while preferred stock includes liquidation preferences and possibly
different voting weights. Fund units represent ownership interests in investment
vehicles and may follow different governance rules entirely.

For **voting rights**, toggle the switch to enable or disable shareholder voting
on this class. When enabled, you can set the **voting weight** (typically 1 vote
per share, but some preferred classes use 10:1 or other ratios). You can also
configure **quorum requirements** that define the minimum participation
percentage needed for a vote to count—without a quorum threshold, votes pass
regardless of how many shareholders participate, which may not align with your
governance documents.

Voting rights matter because they determine how much influence shareholders have
over major corporate decisions. Equity tokenization on ATK preserves these
rights on-chain: when you create governance proposals, the smart contract
automatically calculates each shareholder's voting power based on their token
balance at the moment the proposal was created, preventing vote manipulation
through last-minute share purchases. This checkpoint mechanism ensures that
governance remains fair and matches the expectations set in your shareholder
agreement.

![Share class configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Share class settings showing class type dropdown, voting toggle, and voting
weight input_

#### Cap table integration

Link your token to your corporate structure by setting **total authorized
shares**, which caps the maximum number of tokens that can ever be minted. This
enforces your articles of incorporation on-chain and prevents accidental
over-issuance. The **par value** field captures the nominal value per share if
your jurisdiction requires it (many modern jurisdictions use no-par stock, in
which case you can leave this at 0). The **valuation reference** field lets you
record your company's latest 409A or fair market valuation, which the platform
uses to calculate net asset value and ownership percentages in the cap table
dashboard.

This integration means the platform becomes your single source of truth for
equity ownership. Traditional cap table management requires reconciling
spreadsheets, tracking paper certificates, and manually updating ownership
records after each transaction. That manual process takes days to reflect
changes and introduces errors when signatures are missing or data gets
duplicated across systems. ATK eliminates that lag—every transfer updates the
cap table instantly, and the observability dashboards show real-time ownership
distribution without requiring manual exports or reconciliation.

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  The cap table dashboard in the observability stack shows ownership
  percentages, dilution scenarios, and vesting schedules in real-time. You can
  monitor these metrics at
  `https://your-instance.settlemint.com/dashboards/cap-table` to verify that
  token balances match your corporate records and to track how option exercises
  or secondary transfers affect ownership structure without exporting data to
  spreadsheets.
</Callout>

### 3. Configure compliance framework

Your equity token enforces transfer restrictions automatically through DALP's
OnchainID integration. This compliance-by-design approach means that every
transfer request is validated against your configured rules before it
executes—there's no manual approval step where you review a spreadsheet of
pending transfers and check investor status by hand.

#### Regulatory framework selection

Choose the regulatory framework that governs your offering. **Regulation D
(506b/506c)** covers U.S. private placements to accredited investors. 506(b)
allows up to 35 non-accredited investors but prohibits general solicitation,
while 506(c) permits advertising but requires third-party verification of
accredited status for all investors. **Regulation S** enables offshore offerings
to non-U.S. persons and typically excludes U.S. investors entirely. **Regulation
A+** provides a mini-IPO path with broader retail access after SEC qualification
and ongoing disclosure. **Regulation CF** supports crowdfunding with investment
limits based on investor income and net worth. The **Custom** option lets you
define compliance rules for non-U.S. jurisdictions or hybrid structures.

Selecting a framework pre-populates compliance modules with the appropriate
claim requirements and transfer restrictions. You can adjust these later, but
starting with a framework saves configuration time and reduces the risk of
missing a required rule.

![Compliance framework selection](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Regulatory framework cards showing Reg D, Reg S, Reg A+, Reg CF,
and Custom options with descriptions and investor limits_

#### Configure compliance modules

Based on your selected framework, configure the OnchainID claim requirements
that determine investor eligibility. The **investor eligibility** module
specifies which identity claims a recipient must hold before they can receive
shares. For Reg D 506(c), you'll require the accredited investor claim, which is
issued by a third-party verifier after reviewing income or net worth
documentation. Qualified purchaser status applies to certain fund investments,
while income and net worth verification supports Reg CF offerings where
investment limits depend on the investor's financial profile. KYC and AML
verification levels let you set minimum identity assurance thresholds (for
example, requiring government ID and proof of address rather than just email
verification).

These claims are stored in each investor's OnchainID—a decentralized identity
tied to their wallet address. When a shareholder attempts to transfer shares,
the smart contract checks that the recipient's OnchainID contains all required
claims and that those claims are still valid (not expired or revoked). If any
claim is missing or invalid, the transfer reverts automatically. This eliminates
the manual compliance check that transfer agents typically perform over 2-5
business days for each secondary transfer, and it ensures that your cap table
never includes ineligible shareholders.

For **transfer restrictions**, you can enable a **right of first refusal
(ROFR)** that requires company approval before shares move to a secondary buyer.
This mirrors traditional shareholder agreements where the company or existing
shareholders have the option to purchase shares before they're sold to
outsiders. You can also set a **lock-up period** that prevents sales for a
specified duration—this is common for founder shares that vest over 48 months
with a 12-month cliff. **Shareholder approval** thresholds let you require board
consent for transfers above a certain size, preventing any one investor from
accumulating a controlling stake without oversight. The **maximum holders
limit** caps the total number of shareholders, which helps companies avoid
triggering SEC registration requirements (staying under 2,000 shareholders of
record, for example).

![Compliance modules configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Compliance modules showing Investor Eligibility, Transfer
Restrictions, and Lock-up Period panels with configuration options_

#### Geographic restrictions

You can limit share ownership by jurisdiction using the **country allow list**
or **country block list** modules. An allow list explicitly names the countries
whose residents can hold shares, while a block list excludes specific
jurisdictions. For Regulation S offerings, you'll typically enable the block
list and add the United States to ensure no U.S. persons acquire shares. For
Regulation D, you might use an allow list that includes only the U.S. and
Canada.

These geographic restrictions integrate with OnchainID's jurisdiction claims.
Each investor's identity includes a verified country of residence, and the
compliance engine checks this claim during every transfer. If the recipient's
country is blocked or not on the allow list, the transfer fails immediately.
This automated enforcement replaces the manual passport and residency checks
that transfer agents perform, and it guarantees that your shareholder base
remains compliant with cross-border securities laws.

### 4. Set up governance (optional)

If you enabled voting rights in step 2, you'll now configure on-chain governance
for shareholder decision-making. Governance features require the voting add-on,
which must be enabled during equity token creation—you cannot add voting to an
existing token later without redeploying. Governance matters because it
determines how shareholders influence major corporate decisions like mergers,
board elections, and amendments to bylaws. On-chain governance provides
transparency (every vote is recorded publicly), immutability (votes cannot be
altered after submission), and automation (approved proposals can trigger
on-chain actions without manual intervention).

#### Governance parameters

Define how voting power is calculated. **One token equals one vote** is the
standard democratic approach where each share has equal weight. **Weighted
voting** allows different share classes to carry different vote multipliers—for
example, founder shares might have 10 votes each while investor shares have 1
vote each. **Snapshot-based** voting determines voting power based on token
holdings at the moment a proposal is created rather than when the vote is cast.
This prevents manipulation where a shareholder buys additional shares during the
voting period to swing the outcome.

ATK uses ERC-20 checkpoints to capture voting power at proposal creation. When
you create a proposal, the system records a snapshot of every shareholder's
token balance at that block height. Even if shareholders transfer shares during
the voting period, their voting power remains fixed based on the snapshot. This
checkpoint mechanism aligns with corporate governance best practices and matches
how record dates work in traditional equity voting.

<Callout type="default" title="For developers">
  See [Contract
  Reference](/docs/developer-guides/smart-contracts/contract-reference) for
  details on the ERC-20 Votes checkpoint mechanism and technical implementation.
</Callout>

Configure proposal lifecycle settings to control how governance works in
practice. The **proposal threshold** sets the minimum number of tokens an
address must hold to create a proposal—this prevents spam proposals from
shareholders with negligible stakes. The **voting period** defines how long
proposals remain open for voting (typically 7 days for corporate governance to
allow time for shareholder review and discussion). The **execution delay** adds
a timelock after a proposal passes before it executes, giving shareholders time
to exit if they disagree with the outcome. **Quorum** specifies the minimum
participation percentage required for a vote to be valid—setting this at 20-40%
balances meaningful engagement with practical governance, since requiring too
high a quorum can lead to failed votes due to shareholder apathy.

You can track governance metrics in real-time through the observability
dashboard. The governance panel shows proposal history, voting participation
rates, and quorum achievement across all proposals. This visibility helps you
tune governance parameters over time—if you notice that proposals consistently
fail to reach quorum, you might lower the threshold or extend the voting period
to improve participation.

![Governance configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Governance settings showing voting power model, proposal threshold, voting
period, and quorum inputs_

#### Delegation support

Enable vote delegation to allow shareholders to appoint representatives who vote
on their behalf. Toggle **allow delegation** on, and shareholders can then
assign their voting power to any address they trust. Delegation is recorded
on-chain with the same checkpoint mechanism used for voting power, so delegates
vote with the combined power of all shareholders who delegated to them. This
feature is useful when shareholders lack time or expertise to evaluate every
proposal, or when shareholder representative services aggregate voting power
from multiple small investors.

Delegation remains active until a shareholder revokes it or votes directly on a
proposal. When a shareholder votes directly, their delegated power is
automatically withdrawn for that specific vote, ensuring that shareholders
retain ultimate control over major decisions even if they typically rely on a
delegate.

### 5. Assign operational roles

Grant permissions for equity management by assigning wallet addresses to
specific roles. ATK uses role-based access control to separate duties and
prevent single-point-of-failure scenarios. Each role has distinct permissions
that align with typical corporate functions.

#### Role assignments

The **GOVERNANCE_ROLE** manages compliance and corporate governance. Addresses
with this role can configure compliance modules, manage shareholder eligibility
criteria, create governance proposals, and update share class parameters. This
role is typically assigned to the corporate secretary's wallet or a board
representative multisig, since these functions involve interpreting corporate
bylaws and shareholder agreements.

The **SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE** controls share issuance and buybacks. It can mint
new shares within the authorized share cap, burn shares to reflect buybacks or
cancellations, and execute batch operations when you're updating the cap table
for multiple shareholders at once. This role typically goes to the CFO's wallet
or a treasury multisig, since share issuance affects capitalization and
financial statements.

The **CUSTODIAN_ROLE** handles shareholder account operations. It can freeze
compromised accounts to prevent unauthorized transfers, execute forced transfers
when required by court orders or regulatory actions, and recover shares from
lost or inaccessible wallets. This role is typically assigned to a transfer
agent wallet, since it mirrors the custodial functions that transfer agents
perform in traditional equity markets.

The **EMERGENCY_ROLE** enables emergency interventions. It can pause all
transfers during security incidents or investigations, and unpause once the
issue is resolved. This role is typically assigned to a security operations
wallet or an incident response multisig, since rapid response is critical when
vulnerabilities are discovered.

Use different multisig wallets for each role to enforce separation of duties. If
you assign all roles to a single wallet, that wallet becomes a single point of
failure—compromising it gives an attacker complete control over your equity
token. By distributing roles across multisigs with different signers, you
require collusion between multiple parties before any one role can be abused.

![Role assignment interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Role assignment form showing four roles with address inputs, role descriptions,
and permission lists_

### 6. Review and deploy

#### Pre-deployment checklist

Verify your configuration before deploying to avoid costly redeployments:

- [ ] Token name and symbol match your cap table and corporate records
- [ ] Share class type is correct (Common/Preferred/Fund)
- [ ] Total authorized shares matches your articles of incorporation
- [ ] Voting configuration aligns with your shareholder agreement
- [ ] Compliance framework matches your regulatory filing (Reg D/S/A/CF)
- [ ] All operational roles are assigned to secure multisig wallets, not EOAs
- [ ] Initial supply is correct if minting on deployment

![Deployment summary review](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Pre-deployment summary showing token info, share class, compliance, governance,
and roles in organized sections_

#### Deploy equity contract

Click **Deploy Equity Token** to execute the deployment transaction. Review the
gas estimate and transaction details, then authenticate using your PIN or OTP.
The deployment process runs through several steps: deploying the proxy contract
(15-20 seconds), initializing parameters (10 seconds), configuring voting
checkpoints if governance is enabled (5 seconds), assigning roles to your
specified addresses (5 seconds per role), and registering the token with the
OnchainID registry (10 seconds). The entire deployment typically completes
within 60-90 seconds.

Once deployment finishes, you'll see a confirmation screen with your contract
address. Copy this address and store it securely—you'll need it for any manual
interactions and for providing to auditors or legal counsel when documenting
your equity structure.

![Deployment progress](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Deployment progress modal showing step-by-step deployment status with checkmarks
and timestamps_

### 7. Post-issuance actions

#### Verify deployment

Click **View Equity Token** to navigate to the token details page. Verify that
all configuration matches your expectations: token name and symbol are correct,
share class parameters match your records, voting is enabled if you configured
governance, and all roles show the wallet addresses you specified. The details
page displays key metrics including total supply, number of holders, and
ownership concentration. This information updates in real-time as shares
transfer, giving you instant visibility into your cap table without exporting
data or running manual reports.

![Equity details overview](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Equity token details page showing key metrics, share class info, voting status,
and shareholder distribution_

#### Issue initial allocation

If you deployed with zero initial supply, you'll need to mint shares to your
founders and initial investors. Navigate to the **Actions** tab and click **Mint
Shares**. Enter recipient addresses and amounts for each shareholder. The
platform validates that each recipient has a registered OnchainID with the
required compliance claims before allowing the mint to proceed. For shares with
vesting schedules (founder shares with 4-year vesting and 1-year cliff, for
example), mint to vesting contract addresses rather than directly to
beneficiaries so the vesting logic controls when shares become transferable.

Click **Execute Batch Mint** to issue all shares in a single transaction. This
saves gas compared to minting individually and ensures atomic execution—either
all recipients receive their allocation or none do, preventing partial cap table
updates if the transaction reverts.

#### Configure vesting schedules (optional)

For founder or employee shares that vest over time, navigate to the **Addons**
section and deploy the **Vesting Airdrop** addon. You'll configure the vesting
start date (typically the grant date or hire date), cliff period (the initial
period before any shares vest—commonly 12 months for founders), vesting duration
(total time until all shares vest—typically 48 months), and vesting curve
(linear monthly vesting or milestone-based vesting tied to specific
achievements).

Once the vesting contract is deployed, mint the total vesting allocation to the
contract address. Then add beneficiaries with their individual allocation
amounts. The vesting contract releases shares according to the schedule
automatically—beneficiaries can claim vested shares at any time, but unvested
shares remain locked in the contract until they vest. This eliminates manual
tracking of vesting schedules in spreadsheets and prevents early exercise or
transfer of unvested shares, which could complicate your cap table and create
tax issues for employees.

### 8. Manage shareholder operations

#### Track cap table

Navigate to the **Shareholders** tab to view your current ownership structure.
The table shows each holder's address and verified identity, share count,
ownership percentage, voting power, and acquisition date. You can sort by any
column to identify largest holders, track recent acquisitions, or compare voting
power across shareholders. Export the cap table as CSV for reporting to your
board, auditors, or regulatory authorities—the export includes transaction
history and vesting details so you can provide a complete audit trail.

The cap table updates instantly with each transfer. When a shareholder transfers
shares to a new recipient, the recipient appears in the table within seconds,
their ownership percentage is recalculated automatically, and voting power
adjusts if governance is enabled. This real-time accuracy eliminates the
reconciliation delays that occur with traditional transfer agents, who typically
update cap tables weekly or monthly and require manual verification to catch
discrepancies between their ledger and the company's records.

You can monitor cap table metrics through the observability dashboard as well.
The ownership concentration chart shows how shares are distributed (for example,
whether 80% of shares are held by 20% of shareholders), the holder count
timeline tracks growth in your shareholder base over time, and the vesting
schedule visualization shows when large blocks of founder or employee shares
will unlock. These metrics help you anticipate dilution, plan for liquidity
events, and ensure that your shareholder base remains within regulatory limits.

![Shareholder cap table](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Shareholders tab showing table with columns for address, identity, shares held,
percentage, voting power, and acquisition date_

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  ATK's real-time cap table eliminates the lag and errors inherent in
  traditional transfer agent services. Transfer agents update weekly or monthly
  and charge per-transaction fees that can exceed $75 per shareholder for
  complex operations. The observability dashboard provides instant visibility
  into ownership changes, and automated compliance checks replace the manual
  review that typically takes 2-5 business days for each transfer. This reduces
  administrative overhead by 60-80% and ensures that governance events like
  dividend distributions or voting always operate on current data.
</Callout>

#### Process share transfers

Handle secondary transfers through the platform's approval workflow when you've
enabled ROFR or other transfer restrictions. When a shareholder initiates a
transfer via the dApp, the transaction enters a pending state if your compliance
configuration requires approval. Navigate to **Pending Transfers** to review the
details: sender and recipient identities, share amount, compliance status
(whether the recipient has all required OnchainID claims), and ROFR implications
(whether the company wants to exercise its right to purchase the shares instead
of allowing the transfer to the third party).

Click **Approve** to allow the transfer to proceed or **Reject** with a reason
to block it. Approved transfers execute immediately and update the cap table.
Rejected transfers return shares to the sender's balance and record the
rejection reason on-chain for audit purposes.

For transfers where the recipient lacks required compliance claims or violates
configured restrictions (wrong jurisdiction, lock-up period still active,
maximum holders limit reached), the system auto-rejects without requiring manual
review. You'll see these automatic rejections in the transfer history with a
clear explanation of which rule was violated. This automated enforcement
eliminates the manual compliance checks that transfer agents perform over days
or weeks for each secondary transfer, and it prevents non-compliant shareholders
from ever appearing in your cap table.

#### Create governance proposals

For equity with voting enabled, navigate to the **Governance** tab and click
**New Proposal** to create a shareholder vote. Enter a descriptive title and
detailed description explaining what you're proposing and why. Specify the
proposed action—this can be informational (a sentiment vote with no on-chain
execution) or executable (a transaction that runs automatically if the proposal
passes, such as updating a compliance parameter or distributing dividends). Set
the voting period to align with your bylaws (7-14 days is typical for corporate
governance).

Your address must hold at least the proposal threshold number of shares to
submit the proposal. This prevents spam from shareholders with negligible stakes
who can't meaningfully influence the outcome anyway. Once you submit the
proposal, the system captures a checkpoint of every shareholder's token balance
at the current block height. This snapshot determines voting power—shareholders
vote with the balance they held when the proposal was created, not their current
balance.

Shareholders vote by navigating to **Governance** &gt; **Active Proposals**,
reviewing the proposal details, and clicking **Vote**. They select For, Against,
or Abstain and optionally add a comment explaining their vote. If delegation is
enabled, they can delegate their votes to a representative rather than voting
directly. Voting power is locked at the checkpoint, so buying more shares during
the voting period doesn't increase anyone's vote on existing proposals. This
checkpoint mechanism prevents vote manipulation and ensures fair governance.

The governance dashboard in the observability stack tracks proposal status, vote
tallies, and participation rates in real-time. You can monitor quorum progress
during the voting period to see whether the proposal will reach the minimum
participation threshold, and you can review historical voting patterns to
understand which types of proposals engage shareholders most effectively.

![Governance voting interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Governance tab showing active proposal with title, description, voting options,
current tally, and vote button_

#### Execute dividend distributions

Distribute profits to shareholders using the platform's dividend functionality
if you enabled the yield addon during deployment. Navigate to the **Dividends**
tab and click **Schedule Distribution**. Select the distribution token (USDC,
USDT, or another stablecoin or asset token), enter the amount per share, set the
payment date (when shareholders can claim their dividends), and specify the
snapshot date (the record date that determines holder eligibility). Only
shareholders who held shares at the snapshot date are entitled to the
distribution, which matches how record dates work in traditional equity.

Fund the dividend wallet with the total distribution amount (total outstanding
shares × amount per share). On the payment date, the distribution activates and
shareholders can claim their dividends on-demand. The system tracks which
shareholders have claimed to prevent double-claiming, and it pro-rates
distributions automatically based on each shareholder's balance at the snapshot
date. This eliminates the manual calculation and payment processing that
typically takes 7-14 business days and costs $25-75 per shareholder in transfer
agent fees.

The observability dashboard shows dividend claim rates in real-time. You can
monitor what percentage of shareholders have claimed their distributions and
send reminders to shareholders who haven't claimed after a certain period. This
visibility helps you forecast when the distribution will complete and when you
can recover unclaimed funds according to your dividend policy.

If you didn't enable the yield addon during deployment, you'll need to execute
dividend distributions manually using batch transfers or by deploying a separate
dividend distribution contract. The platform is planning a dividend claiming
dashboard for a future release that will provide a dedicated interface for
managing distributions without requiring the yield addon.

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Traditional dividend distributions require exporting the cap table,
  calculating pro-rata amounts in spreadsheets, coordinating wire transfers or
  ACH payments to dozens or hundreds of shareholders, and manually reconciling
  which payments cleared. This process consumes 7-14 business days and incurs
  significant transfer agent fees. ATK automates the entire
  workflow—shareholders claim dividends on-demand, the system tracks claims
  automatically, and you can monitor completion rates through the observability
  dashboard without manual reconciliation.
</Callout>

### Common workflows

#### Handle new investor onboarding

When adding a new shareholder, the investor first completes KYC through the
platform or an integrated identity provider. This verification process results
in the required compliance claims being added to the investor's
OnchainID—accredited investor status for Reg D 506(c) offerings, jurisdiction
claims to confirm they're in an allowed country, and KYC level claims to verify
identity. Once the claims are issued, verify that the investor appears in your
**Eligible Investors** list before minting shares.

Navigate to **Actions** &gt; **Mint Shares**, enter the investor's wallet
address and their allocation, and execute the mint. The compliance engine
validates that the investor's OnchainID contains all required claims and that
the mint doesn't violate any configured restrictions (total supply cap, maximum
holders limit, etc.). If all checks pass, the shares are minted and the investor
immediately appears in your cap table with their ownership percentage calculated
automatically.

#### Process employee share options exercise

When an employee exercises stock options, the conversion from options to shares
happens off-chain or through a separate options contract. Once the exercise is
complete and you've received payment (if applicable), mint the exercised shares
to the employee's wallet. Navigate to **Actions** &gt; **Mint Shares**, enter
the employee's address and the number of exercised shares, and execute the mint.
If the shares are subject to post-exercise vesting (which is uncommon but occurs
in some structures), you can mint to a vesting contract address rather than
directly to the employee.

The minted shares update the cap table instantly, increasing the employee's
ownership percentage and adjusting all other shareholders' percentages to
reflect the dilution. The observability dashboard's dilution scenario panel
shows the impact of option exercises on existing shareholders, helping you
communicate the effects of option pools to your board and investors.

#### Execute buyback program

When repurchasing shares from shareholders, first obtain shareholder consent for
the buyback according to your corporate bylaws (this typically requires a board
resolution or shareholder approval depending on the size of the buyback).
Transfer funds from the company treasury to the selling shareholder's account or
wallet. Initiate the share transfer from the shareholder's wallet to the company
wallet—the shareholder executes this transfer themselves or delegates authority
to the company to pull the shares.

Once the company wallet holds the shares, navigate to **Actions** &gt; **Burn
Shares**, enter the company wallet address and the amount to burn, and execute
the burn transaction. Burning reduces the total supply, which concentrates
ownership among remaining shareholders (each shareholder's percentage increases
proportionally). Record the buyback in your corporate resolutions and update
financial statements to reflect the share cancellation and cash outflow.

The cap table updates automatically when shares burn. The observability
dashboard tracks total supply over time, showing the impact of buybacks on
capitalization and ownership concentration. This visibility helps you plan
future buybacks and demonstrate to shareholders how repurchase programs affect
their ownership stakes.

#### Update shareholder eligibility

Modify compliance requirements by navigating to the **Compliance** tab and
selecting the module you want to update (for example, the country allow list or
accredited investor claim requirement). Adjust the parameters—add or remove
countries, change the required claim types, update verification levels—and click
**Update Module**. This action requires the GOVERNANCE_ROLE, since changing
compliance rules affects who can hold shares and how transfers are validated.

Existing shareholders are grandfathered under the old rules—they retain their
shares even if they wouldn't meet the new requirements. The updated rules apply
only to future transfers, so a shareholder who was eligible under the old rules
can continue holding shares but cannot transfer to a recipient who doesn't meet
the new requirements. This gradual enforcement prevents disrupting existing
holdings while tightening eligibility for new participants.

The compliance metrics panel in the observability dashboard tracks rule
violations and auto-rejected transfers. You can review which rules are blocking
the most transfers and adjust requirements if they're too restrictive. For
example, if you notice that many transfers fail because recipients lack a
specific claim that isn't critical to your compliance posture, you might remove
that claim requirement to improve liquidity while maintaining core protections.

<Callout type="default" title="For developers">
  See [Compliance
  Modules](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/identity-compliance) for technical
  details on how the compliance engine validates transfers and manages rule
  updates.
</Callout>

## Results

After completing these steps, you will have:

- A deployed equity token contract with your specified share class parameters
- Configured compliance rules that automatically enforce eligibility and
  transfer restrictions via OnchainID integration
- (Optional) On-chain governance enabled with voting checkpoints, proposal
  mechanisms, and delegation support
- Assigned operational roles to designated multisig wallets with separation of
  duties
- Issued initial share allocations to verified investors whose OnchainIDs
  contain required claims
- (Optional) Configured vesting schedules that release shares automatically over
  time
- Real-time cap table visibility through the platform dashboard and
  observability metrics

Your equity token is now live with automated compliance enforcement and instant
cap table updates. Shareholders can transfer shares subject to your configured
restrictions—the DALP compliance engine validates every transfer against
OnchainID claims and configured rules without manual review. If you enabled
governance, shareholders can create and vote on proposals using their
token-based voting power. The observability dashboards provide real-time metrics
on ownership distribution, governance participation, dividend claim rates, and
compliance rule violations, giving you complete operational visibility without
exporting data or running manual reports.

## Troubleshooting

**Deployment fails with "Total supply exceeds authorized shares":**

Verify that your initial supply is less than the total authorized shares cap you
configured in step 2. Check that your authorized shares calculation includes
adequate buffer for future issuances (option exercises, new funding rounds). If
you need more authorized shares, update your articles of incorporation and
redeploy with a higher cap.

**Minting fails for investor:**

Verify that the investor's OnchainID is registered on-chain and visible in the
identity registry. Check that the investor's OnchainID contains all required
claims (accredited status, jurisdiction, KYC level) and that none of those
claims have expired or been revoked. Confirm that the investor's country is not
on your block list and is included on your allow list if you configured one.
Ensure that minting these shares won't cause total supply to exceed the
authorized shares cap or push you over the maximum holders limit.

You can review investor claim status through the **Eligible Investors** page,
which shows which claims each investor holds and whether they're current. The
compliance metrics dashboard also shows claim verification statistics and common
failure reasons across all transfer attempts.

**Governance proposal creation fails:**

Verify that your wallet address holds at least the proposal threshold number of
shares you configured in step 4. Check that voting is enabled in your equity
configuration (you'll see a Governance tab if it's enabled). Ensure that
proposal parameters (voting period, execution delay) are within the allowed
ranges you set during deployment. Confirm that you enabled the voting add-on
during initial deployment—governance cannot be added to existing equity tokens
without redeployment.

**Vote transaction reverts:**

Confirm that you held shares at the proposal creation checkpoint—voting power is
determined by your balance at the block height when the proposal was created,
not your current balance. Verify that the proposal is still in the voting period
and hasn't ended or been executed. Check that you haven't already voted on this
proposal (you can only vote once). If you're trying to delegate, ensure that
delegation is enabled in the equity configuration.

The governance dashboard shows checkpoint heights for each proposal along with
your balance at that checkpoint, making it easy to verify your voting
eligibility.

**Dividend distribution fails:**

Verify that your dividend wallet has sufficient balance of the distribution
token to cover the total distribution (total outstanding shares × amount per
share). Check the calculation carefully, accounting for all shareholders
eligible at the snapshot date. Ensure that all eligible holders have verified
OnchainIDs—distributions may fail if a recipient's identity is invalid. Review
the distribution configuration to confirm that the snapshot date is in the past
(you can't distribute based on a future snapshot).

The dividend metrics panel shows claim progress, total distributed amount, and
remaining unclaimed balance, helping you diagnose whether the issue is
insufficient funding or a configuration problem.

**Voting add-on not available after deployment:**

The voting module must be enabled during equity token creation in step 4. It
cannot be added to existing equity tokens after deployment because enabling
governance requires deploying additional contracts and modifying the token's
initialization parameters. If you need governance features for an existing
equity token, you'll need to deploy a new token with voting enabled and migrate
shareholders to the new contract.

For additional help, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) or
contact support.

## Next steps

- [Corporate actions](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/corporate-actions) -
  Execute dividends, splits, vesting schedules, and governance proposals
- [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) - Onboard
  new shareholders and verify identities
- [Admin settings](/docs/user-guides/operations/admin-settings) - Manage
  compliance modules and operational roles
- [Identity and compliance](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/identity-compliance) -
  Understand the compliance module architecture
- [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) - Resolve common equity
  token issues
