---
title: Issue a bond
description:
  Bond tokens represent digital debt instruments that automate the entire
  lifecycle from issuance to coupon payments, compliance checks, secondary
  trading, and maturity redemption. Yield management automates coupon
  distributions while DvP ensures atomic settlement, eliminating weeks of manual
  coordination. Track bond performance in the fixed income dashboard to monitor
  outstanding principal, accrued interest, and payment schedules in real-time.
pageTitle: How to issue a bond token (Debt instrument)
tags: [how-to, bond, issuance, yield, tutorial]
---

## Before you start

Ensure you've completed the necessary setup before creating your bond token.
You'll need your bond system factory deployed (this happens during platform
onboarding), a denomination asset contract address (deploy a stablecoin or use
an existing USDC/USDT contract), and fully defined bond terms including
principal amount, coupon rate, maturity date, and payment frequency.

Time estimate: 15-20 minutes for bond deployment; additional time for yield
configuration and initial funding.

Required knowledge includes basic blockchain wallet operations (signing
transactions, managing private keys), understanding of bond instruments (face
value, maturity, coupon rates, yield calculations), and familiarity with
applicable securities regulations such as Regulation D, Regulation S, or other
frameworks governing your offering.

## Steps

<Steps>

<Step>

### Navigate to bond creation

From your dashboard, click Asset Management in the left sidebar to access your
asset portfolio. Select Bonds from the asset type list to view existing bond
tokens and available templates. Click the Create New Bond Token button to launch
the bond configuration wizard.

![Bond creation navigation](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Asset Management section showing Bonds category with existing bonds list and
Create New Bond Token button_

</Step>

<Step>

### Configure bond parameters

#### Basic token information

Your bond token requires standard ERC-3643 parameters that define its digital
representation. Enter the token name using the full legal name of your
offering—for example, "TechCorp 2027 Senior Secured Notes" clearly identifies
the issuer, maturity year, and security type. The token symbol serves as the
trading identifier; keep it concise like "TECH27". Set decimals to 18 for
fractional bond ownership or 0 if bonds must trade as whole units. Initial
supply determines how many tokens mint at deployment—you can set this to zero
and mint later after verifying all configurations.

![Bond basic information](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Bond
configuration form showing name, symbol, decimals, and initial supply input
fields with validation_

Naming tip: Include issuer name, maturity year, and security type in your token
name. This becomes crucial when investors hold multiple bonds and need to
distinguish between them quickly.

#### Bond-specific parameters

Configure the financial terms that define your debt instrument. The maturity
date determines when bondholders can redeem their tokens for denomination
assets—select a future date using the date picker and the platform converts it
to Unix timestamp automatically. Typical corporate bonds have 1-10 year
maturities depending on capital needs and market conditions.

Face value specifies the redemption amount per token at maturity, denominated in
your chosen stablecoin. Setting a face value of 1000 means each bond token
redeems for 1,000 USDC (or whatever denomination asset you select). This creates
the fundamental calculation: tokens held × face value = redemption proceeds. For
a bondholder with 50 tokens at 1000 face value, redemption yields 50,000 USDC.

The denomination asset serves as your underlying collateral token. Enter the
ERC20 contract address for your stablecoin—USDC, USDT, or a platform-specific
stablecoin all work as long as they implement the standard decimals() function.
The platform validates the address format and checks that the contract exists
on-chain before allowing deployment.

![Bond-specific parameters](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Bond parameters showing maturity date picker, face value input, and denomination
asset address field with validation_

</Step>

<Step>

### Configure yield distribution (optional)

The yield module is an optional add-on that you must explicitly enable during
bond creation—bonds deployed without it cannot support scheduled coupon
calculations later. If you're issuing zero-coupon bonds or handling interest
payments off-chain, you can skip this section.

#### Yield schedule setup

Enabling the yield add-on activates automated interest distribution. Toggle
yield distribution on, then select your payment frequency from quarterly (every
3 months), semi-annual (every 6 months), or annual (every 12 months) options.
Set the first payment date to establish when bondholders can begin claiming
interest—this should align with your term sheet and investor expectations. Enter
the yield rate as basis points where 5% annual = 500 basis points, 7.5% annual =
750 basis points, and 10% annual = 1000 basis points.

![Yield schedule configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Yield configuration showing payment frequency dropdown, first
payment date picker, and yield rate input with basis points calculator_

#### Payment mechanism and DvP settlement

Yield management automates the complete coupon distribution process, eliminating
the manual recordkeeping and payment coordination that traditionally consumes
5-10 business days per payment cycle. The system captures a snapshot of who
holds bonds at each payment date, calculates pro-rata entitlements based on
holdings and your configured interest rate, and enables bondholders to claim
their payments on-demand. DvP ensures atomic coupon payment settlement—the smart
contract verifies the claimant's bond holdings and transfers the precise
denomination asset amount in a single transaction. If either verification or
transfer fails, the entire operation reverts, preventing any reconciliation
mismatches.

When a payment date arrives, the yield module determines each holder's
entitlement: (tokens held × face value × annual rate × period fraction) = coupon
amount. For quarterly payments on a 6% annual rate bond with 1000 face value, a
holder with 100 tokens receives (100 × 1000 × 0.06 × 0.25) = 1,500 USDC per
quarter. Token holders claim their interest directly through the investor portal
whenever convenient—no waiting for batch processing, no coordinating wire
transfers, no $50-200 per bondholder fees that transfer agents typically charge.

Funding requirement: Ensure your designated payment wallet holds sufficient
denomination assets before each payment date. The fixed income dashboard shows
exactly how much funding is required for upcoming payments, calculating total
outstanding interest across all bondholders. Transfer the required amount at
least 24 hours before the payment date to avoid claim failures.

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Traditional bond administration requires collecting bondholder lists,
  calculating interest manually, coordinating hundreds or thousands of wire
  transfers, and reconciling which payments cleared. This process typically
  takes 5-10 business days and costs $50-200 per bondholder depending on
  transfer agent fees. ATK eliminates this operational overhead—bondholders
  claim their interest on-demand, DvP ensures atomic settlement without
  reconciliation, and the observability stack tracks everything automatically
  through the fixed income dashboard.
</Callout>

</Step>

<Step>

### Set compliance rules

Your bond token enforces transfer restrictions through compliance modules that
execute on every transaction. This embedded compliance layer ensures regulatory
adherence without relying on off-chain monitoring or manual intervention.

#### Regulatory framework selection

Choose the framework that matches your offering structure. Regulation D supports
US private placements where bonds can only transfer to accredited investors—the
compliance module validates investor claims before allowing transfers.
Regulation S enables offshore offerings by restricting US persons while allowing
broader international distribution. Regulation A supports US public offerings
with a wider investor base beyond just accredited individuals. The Custom option
lets you define specific compliance requirements that don't fit standard
frameworks.

![Compliance framework selection](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Compliance framework cards showing Reg D, Reg S, Reg A, and Custom
options with descriptions_

Selecting a framework provides pre-configured compliance modules that you can
customize after deployment. For example, choosing Regulation D automatically
enables accredited investor verification and US jurisdiction restrictions.

#### Configure compliance modules

Country restrictions limit bond purchases by jurisdiction. Enable the Country
Allow List module and select permitted countries—a Regulation D offering
typically restricts to US only, while Regulation S excludes US but permits other
jurisdictions. Alternatively, enable the Country Block List to specifically
exclude certain countries while allowing all others.

Investor eligibility requirements leverage OnchainID claims to verify
participant status. Set required claims such as accredited investor status
(mandatory for Reg D), KYC/AML verification level (typically Level 2 or higher
for institutional offerings), or qualified purchaser certification for certain
private placements. Only addresses holding all required claims in their
OnchainID can receive or hold bonds—attempted transfers to non-compliant
addresses revert with a compliance failure message.

Additional transfer restrictions provide operational controls beyond basic
eligibility. Time Lock enforces holding periods like the typical 12-month
lock-up required under Rule 144 for US private placements. Transfer Limit caps
maximum transfer sizes to prevent concentration risk or satisfy offering terms.
Supply Limit sets the maximum total bond issuance to match your authorized
principal amount.

![Compliance module configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Compliance modules showing Country Allow List, Identity
Verification, and Time Lock modules with configuration panels_

</Step>

<Step>

### Assign operational roles

Grant permissions for bond management by assigning wallet addresses to
operational roles. This role-based access control separates duties for security
and operational clarity.

GOVERNANCE_ROLE manages compliance and bond lifecycle operations including
setting yield schedules, adding or removing compliance modules, triggering bond
maturation when the maturity date arrives, and configuring identity
requirements. Typically assign this to your legal or compliance team's multisig
wallet since these functions have regulatory implications.

SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE controls token supply through minting new bonds during
primary issuance, burning bonds for cancellation or early redemption, and
executing batch mint operations for large investor groups. Treasury operations
teams typically hold this role since they coordinate capital raising activities.

CUSTODIAN_ROLE handles recovery and account freezing scenarios including
freezing compromised accounts immediately upon breach notification, executing
forced transfers to recover tokens from frozen addresses, and restoring access
to legitimate owners. Assign this to your custodian service provider's wallet or
a dedicated security operations multisig.

EMERGENCY_ROLE provides circuit-breaker functionality to pause all transfers
during security incidents or regulatory investigations, then unpause after
incident resolution. Security operations teams should control this role through
a highly secured multisig wallet.

![Role assignment interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Role assignment form showing four roles with address inputs, descriptions, and
current assignments_

Best practice: Assign different wallet addresses to different roles to prevent
any single compromise from gaining full control. Use multisig wallets requiring
2-of-3 or 3-of-5 signatures for GOVERNANCE_ROLE and EMERGENCY_ROLE given their
systemic impact.

</Step>

<Step>

### Review and deploy

#### Pre-deployment checklist

Review your configuration summary before deployment to catch any errors that
would require redeployment:

- [ ] Token name and symbol match your term sheet exactly
- [ ] Maturity date set correctly (verify Unix timestamp if shown)
- [ ] Face value matches your offering documents
- [ ] Denomination asset address validated and correct contract
- [ ] Yield schedule configured correctly if enabled (rate, frequency, first
      payment)
- [ ] Compliance modules match your regulatory framework requirements
- [ ] All operational roles assigned to correct addresses (verify each address)
- [ ] Initial supply amount confirmed or set to 0 for post-deployment minting

![Deployment summary review](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Pre-deployment summary showing all configured parameters in organized sections
with edit buttons_

#### Deploy bond contract

Click Deploy Bond Token to initiate the deployment sequence. Review the
transaction details in the confirmation modal showing estimated gas costs and
deployment steps. Enter your PIN or OTP to authenticate the operation, then
confirm the transaction through your wallet.

The deployment process executes several on-chain operations: deploying the bond
proxy contract (15-20 seconds depending on network congestion), initializing
with your configured parameters (10 seconds), assigning roles to your specified
addresses (5 seconds per role assignment transaction), and registering the token
with the identity registry to enable compliance checks (10 seconds). Total
deployment time typically runs 60-90 seconds from confirmation to completion.

![Deployment progress](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Deployment progress modal showing checklist of deployment steps with status
indicators (pending/in progress/complete)_

</Step>

<Step>

### Post-issuance actions

#### Verify deployment

Note the contract address displayed after successful deployment—this is your
bond token's permanent on-chain identifier. Click View Bond Token to navigate to
the token details page. Verify the configuration on the overview tab: confirm
token information matches your input parameters, maturity date displays
correctly with countdown timer, denomination asset links to the correct
contract, compliance modules show as active, and roles assigned correctly to
your specified addresses.

![Bond details overview](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Bond
token details page showing key information, maturity countdown, yield schedule,
and compliance status_

#### Mint initial allocation (if needed)

If you deployed with zero initial supply, mint tokens to primary investors
through the Actions tab. Click Mint Bonds to open the batch minting interface.
Enter recipient addresses and corresponding amounts—the interface supports CSV
upload for large investor groups. Click Execute Batch Mint to process the
operation.

The contract validates each recipient's OnchainID and compliance status before
minting. If any recipient lacks required claims (accredited investor status, KYC
verification, jurisdiction eligibility), the entire batch transaction reverts
with a detailed error message identifying the non-compliant address. Verify all
investor OnchainIDs are properly configured before attempting to mint.

#### Fund yield wallet

For bonds with yield add-on enabled, navigate to the Yield tab to view your
yield wallet address. Calculate required funding: (total supply × face value ×
yield rate × number of periods until maturity) + buffer for market growth.
Transfer sufficient denomination assets to this wallet address. The fixed income
dashboard displays current balance and shows whether funding is adequate for
upcoming payments, with warnings appearing 48 hours before payment dates if
balance is insufficient.

Fund your yield wallet at least 48 hours before the first payment date to ensure
bondholders can claim their coupons without delay.

#### Distribute offering documents

Link legal documentation to your token for investor verification. Navigate to
the Documents tab and click Upload Offering Document. Select your PDF
file—offering memorandum, term sheet, indenture, or other legal documents. The
platform generates a cryptographic hash (SHA-256) of the document content and
stores this hash on-chain as part of the token's immutable record.

Investors can verify document authenticity by downloading your document and
comparing its hash against the on-chain value. Any modification to the
document—even changing a single character—produces a completely different hash,
making tampering immediately detectable.

</Step>

<Step>

### Manage bond lifecycle

#### Monitor yield distributions

The Yield tab on your bond details page shows the complete payment schedule and
historical distributions. Review upcoming payment dates with calculated amounts
based on current token supply. Monitor past claims to track: payment date, total
amount claimed by all bondholders, number of claimants (compared to total
eligible holders), and transaction hashes for on-chain verification.

![Yield distribution history](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Yield tab showing upcoming payments schedule and historical distributions table
with dates, amounts, and status_

The fixed income dashboard aggregates this data across all your bond tokens,
showing total outstanding interest obligations, payment trends over time, and
claim rates (what percentage of eligible bondholders claimed their coupons
within 24/48/72 hours of availability).

#### Process maturity

When your bond reaches its maturity date, the system enables redemption
functionality. Navigate to the Actions tab where the Mature Bond button becomes
available (it remains disabled until the maturity timestamp passes). Click
Mature Bond to review maturation details including total redemption amount
required (total supply × face value) and current denomination asset balance in
your redemption wallet.

Ensure your redemption wallet holds sufficient denomination assets to cover full
redemption—if all bondholders redeem simultaneously, you need (total supply ×
face value) denomination assets available. Click Execute Maturation to
transition the bond into matured state.

Maturation disables most compliance checks on transfers (since the bond is being
unwound rather than traded) and enables the redeem() function that burns tokens
in exchange for denomination assets.

#### Handle redemptions

After maturation, bondholders access redemption through their investor portal.
From their perspective: they navigate to bond holdings, select the matured bond,
click Redeem Bonds, enter the amount to redeem (or select "Redeem All"), and
confirm the transaction. The smart contract burns their tokens and transfers
denomination assets proportionally: (redeemed tokens × face value) = received
assets.

Your monitoring tasks during redemption period: track remaining outstanding
supply on the Holders tab as investors redeem, monitor your denomination asset
reserve balance to ensure adequate liquidity remains, review redemption events
on the Events tab to identify any unusually large redemptions or patterns, and
reconcile total redeemed amounts against your accounting records.

![Redemption tracking](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Bond
events tab showing redemption transactions with holder addresses, amounts
redeemed, and timestamps_

The observability stack provides redemption velocity metrics showing what
percentage of bonds redeem within the first 24 hours, week, and month after
maturation—useful data for planning future bond offerings and understanding
investor behavior.

</Step>

</Steps>

## Bond issuance workflow

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    subgraph Preparation["Step1. Preparation"]
      DefineTerms(Define bond terms<br/>Principal, rate, maturity)
      DeployDenom(Deploy denomination asset<br/>or identify existing stablecoin)
      PrepareCompliance(Prepare compliance rules<br/>Regulatory framework selection)
    end

    subgraph Configuration["Step2. Configuration"]
      CreateToken(Create bond token<br/>Name, symbol, decimals)
      SetParams(Set bond parameters<br/>Face value, maturity date)
      ConfigYield(Configure yield schedule<br/>Optional: rate, frequency)
      SetCompliance(Set compliance modules<br/>KYC, jurisdiction, restrictions)
      AssignRoles(Assign operational roles<br/>Governance, supply, custodian)
    end

    subgraph Deployment["Step3. Deployment"]
      Review(Review configuration<br/>Verify all parameters)
      Deploy(Deploy smart contract<br/>60-90 seconds on-chain)
      Verify(Verify deployment<br/>Contract address, functions)
    end

    subgraph Operations["Step4. Operations"]
      Mint(Mint initial allocation<br/>To verified investors)
      Fund(Fund yield wallet<br/>If yield enabled)
      UploadDocs(Upload offering docs<br/>Generate on-chain hash)
    end

    DefineTerms --> DeployDenom
    DeployDenom --> PrepareCompliance
    PrepareCompliance --> CreateToken

    CreateToken --> SetParams
    SetParams --> ConfigYield
    ConfigYield --> SetCompliance
    SetCompliance --> AssignRoles
    AssignRoles --> Review

    Review --> Deploy
    Deploy --> Verify
    Verify --> Mint

    Mint --> Fund
    Fund --> UploadDocs

    style Preparation fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Configuration fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Deployment fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Operations fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

The bond issuance workflow progresses through four major phases, each with
specific deliverables and validation gates. Preparation establishes your bond's
financial structure and regulatory framework before touching any smart
contracts. Configuration translates those terms into on-chain parameters through
the bond creation wizard. Deployment executes the actual blockchain transactions
that instantiate your bond token. Operations completes the setup by minting
tokens to investors and funding payment systems.

## Coupon payment distribution

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    PaymentDate(Payment date arrives<br/>Blockchain timestamp &gt;= schedule)
    Snapshot(System captures snapshot<br/>Who holds bonds at this moment)
    Calculate(Calculate entitlements<br/>Tokens × Face value × Rate × Period)
    EnableClaim(Enable claim function<br/>Bondholders can claim anytime)

    HolderClaim(Bondholder initiates claim<br/>Through investor portal)
    VerifyID(Verify OnchainID<br/>Compliance check)
    VerifyBalance(Verify bond balance<br/>Check holdings at snapshot)
    ExecuteDvP(Execute DvP settlement<br/>Atomic: verify + transfer)

    TransferAssets(Transfer denomination assets<br/>From yield wallet to holder)
    RecordClaim(Record claim event<br/>On-chain immutable log)
    UpdateDashboard(Update dashboard metrics<br/>Claim rate, remaining obligations)

    PaymentDate --> Snapshot
    Snapshot --> Calculate
    Calculate --> EnableClaim
    EnableClaim --> HolderClaim

    HolderClaim --> VerifyID
    VerifyID --> VerifyBalance
    VerifyBalance --> ExecuteDvP
    ExecuteDvP --> TransferAssets

    TransferAssets --> RecordClaim
    RecordClaim --> UpdateDashboard

    style PaymentDate fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Snapshot fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Calculate fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EnableClaim fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style HolderClaim fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifyID fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifyBalance fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ExecuteDvP fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style TransferAssets fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style RecordClaim fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UpdateDashboard fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

Coupon payment distribution follows a deterministic sequence that eliminates
traditional settlement delays and reconciliation overhead. When the payment date
arrives (determined by blockchain timestamp rather than business day
conventions), the yield module captures a snapshot of current bondholders and
their balances. This snapshot-based calculation prevents gaming where holders
might buy bonds moments before payment just to capture the coupon—holdings must
be present at the exact payment timestamp.

The DvP settlement mechanism is central to reliability: the smart contract
verifies both the claimant's OnchainID compliance and their bond balance at the
snapshot time before transferring assets. If any verification fails—invalid
identity, zero balance at snapshot, insufficient yield wallet funding—the entire
operation reverts atomically. No partial payments, no reconciliation needed. The
fixed income dashboard updates immediately with claim events, showing you
real-time claim rates and remaining obligations.

## Maturity redemption process

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    MaturityDate(Maturity date reached<br/>Blockchain timestamp &gt;= maturity)
    AdminMature(Admin triggers maturation<br/>GOVERNANCE_ROLE action)
    TransitionState(Bond transitions to matured<br/>State machine update)
    EnableRedeem(Enable redemption function<br/>Disable secondary trading)

    HolderRedeem(Bondholder initiates redemption<br/>Through investor portal)
    EnterAmount(Enter amount to redeem<br/>Or select redeem all)
    CalcRedemption(Calculate redemption value<br/>Tokens × Face value)

    VerifyBalance(Verify holder token balance<br/>Must hold tokens being redeemed)
    BurnTokens(Burn redeemed tokens<br/>Reduce total supply)
    TransferAssets(Transfer denomination assets<br/>Atomic settlement)

    RecordEvent(Record redemption event<br/>On-chain immutable log)
    UpdateMetrics(Update bond metrics<br/>Outstanding supply, redemption rate)
    CheckComplete(All tokens redeemed?<br/>Supply == zero)
    FinalState(Bond fully redeemed<br/>Lifecycle complete)

    MaturityDate --> AdminMature
    AdminMature --> TransitionState
    TransitionState --> EnableRedeem
    EnableRedeem --> HolderRedeem

    HolderRedeem --> EnterAmount
    EnterAmount --> CalcRedemption
    CalcRedemption --> VerifyBalance

    VerifyBalance --> BurnTokens
    BurnTokens --> TransferAssets
    TransferAssets --> RecordEvent

    RecordEvent --> UpdateMetrics
    UpdateMetrics --> CheckComplete
    CheckComplete -->|Yes| FinalState
    CheckComplete -->|No| HolderRedeem

    style MaturityDate fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style AdminMature fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style TransitionState fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EnableRedeem fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style HolderRedeem fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EnterAmount fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CalcRedemption fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifyBalance fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BurnTokens fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style TransferAssets fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style RecordEvent fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UpdateMetrics fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckComplete fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style FinalState fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

The maturity redemption process converts bond tokens back to denomination assets
at the predetermined face value. Unlike coupon payments which occur on a
schedule, redemption requires administrative triggering—someone with
GOVERNANCE_ROLE must call the mature() function once the maturity date arrives.
This design prevents premature redemption attempts and gives the issuer control
over exactly when redemption windows open.

After maturation, the bond enters a terminal phase where its primary function is
unwinding outstanding positions. Bondholders redeem at their convenience rather
than waiting for batch processing. Each redemption burns tokens and transfers
assets atomically—the burn and transfer succeed together or both revert,
preventing any scenario where tokens burn without payment or payment occurs
without burning. Monitor redemption velocity through the observability dashboard
to anticipate when your outstanding obligations will fully resolve.

## Secondary market trading flow

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    SellerInitiate(Seller initiates transfer<br/>To buyer address)
    CheckPaused(Check bond not paused<br/>EMERGENCY_ROLE control)
    CheckMaturity(Check bond not matured<br/>Trading disabled after maturity)

    VerifySenderID(Verify seller OnchainID<br/>Valid identity registry entry)
    VerifyRecipientID(Verify buyer OnchainID<br/>Valid identity registry entry)

    CheckCountry(Check jurisdiction rules<br/>Allow list / block list)
    CheckClaims(Check required claims<br/>Accredited status, KYC level)
    CheckTimeLock(Check holding period<br/>Time lock compliance)
    CheckLimits(Check transfer limits<br/>Maximum transfer size)

    ExecuteTransfer(Execute token transfer<br/>Update balances)
    RecordEvent(Record transfer event<br/>On-chain audit log)
    UpdateDashboard(Update trading metrics<br/>Volume, holder count, distribution)

    SellerInitiate --> CheckPaused
    CheckPaused --> CheckMaturity
    CheckMaturity --> VerifySenderID

    VerifySenderID --> VerifyRecipientID
    VerifyRecipientID --> CheckCountry

    CheckCountry --> CheckClaims
    CheckClaims --> CheckTimeLock
    CheckTimeLock --> CheckLimits

    CheckLimits --> ExecuteTransfer
    ExecuteTransfer --> RecordEvent
    RecordEvent --> UpdateDashboard

    style SellerInitiate fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckPaused fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckMaturity fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifySenderID fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifyRecipientID fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckCountry fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckClaims fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckTimeLock fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style CheckLimits fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ExecuteTransfer fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style RecordEvent fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style UpdateDashboard fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff

`} />

Secondary market trading validates compliance before every transfer through the
ERC-3643 compliance layer. When a bondholder initiates a transfer to another
address, the smart contract executes a series of checks that replicate
traditional transfer agent controls—except these checks happen in milliseconds
rather than days and cost near-zero compared to manual review fees.

The compliance check sequence runs through multiple validation gates: emergency
pause status (allows circuit-breaking during incidents), maturity state
(prevents trading after redemption period begins), sender and recipient
OnchainID verification (both parties must have valid identities), jurisdiction
rules (country allow lists or block lists based on your offering structure),
required claims (accredited investor status, KYC verification level, any
offering-specific requirements), holding period enforcement (time locks that
implement Rule 144 or similar restrictions), and transfer size limits (caps on
maximum transfer amounts).

If any check fails, the transfer reverts with a specific error code identifying
which compliance rule blocked the transaction. This provides clear feedback to
users about why their transfer didn't execute and what they need to fix. The
observability dashboard tracks rejected transfers separately from successful
ones, helping you identify common compliance issues that might indicate investor
education needs or misconfigured rules.

### Redemption options comparison

Different redemption structures serve different investor preferences and market
conditions:

| Redemption type | Timing                                | Issuer benefit                                         | Investor consideration                          |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Maturity-only   | Fixed date at term end                | Predictable capital structure, no refinancing pressure | Must hold to maturity for full value            |
| Call provision  | Issuer can redeem early               | Refinancing flexibility if rates decline               | Reinvestment risk if called early               |
| Put provision   | Investor can redeem early             | Higher yield premium compensates                       | Liquidity option at specified dates             |
| Make-whole call | Early redemption + yield compensation | Flexibility with investor protection                   | Receives net present value of remaining coupons |

The ATK platform currently implements maturity-only redemption through the
standard bond lifecycle. Call and put provisions require additional smart
contract logic to handle early redemption scenarios, premium calculations, and
notice periods. If your offering requires these features, contact SettleMint to
discuss custom implementation.

## Results

After completing these steps, you have a fully operational bond token deployed
on-chain with your specified parameters and compliance framework. The bond token
enforces transfer restrictions automatically, calculates coupon entitlements on
your payment schedule if yield is enabled, and provides on-demand redemption at
maturity.

Your operational infrastructure includes: designated wallet roles for
governance, supply management, custodian, and emergency functions; funded yield
wallet (if applicable) to handle coupon distributions; uploaded offering
documents with cryptographic hash verification; and initial allocations minted
to verified investors who passed compliance checks.

Bondholders can now trade their positions in secondary markets (subject to
compliance restrictions), claim coupon payments as they become available, and
redeem tokens for denomination assets after maturity. The fixed income dashboard
gives you real-time visibility into outstanding principal, accrued interest
obligations, payment schedules, redemption activity, and compliance
status—everything you need to manage the bond throughout its lifecycle.

## Troubleshooting

**Deployment fails with "Invalid denomination asset":** Verify the address
points to a valid ERC20 contract by checking it on a block explorer. Ensure the
contract implements the decimals() function—some custom tokens omit this. If
using a proxy contract, verify the proxy properly delegates to an implementation
with full ERC20 interface.

**Yield claiming reverts:** Check your yield wallet denomination asset balance
on the fixed income dashboard—insufficient funding is the most common cause.
Verify the yield token address matches your denomination asset
exactly—mismatches cause claim failures. Ensure the claimant has a verified
OnchainID registered in the identity registry. Check the claimant held bonds at
the payment date snapshot; acquiring bonds after the snapshot doesn't entitle
them to that payment period.

**Cannot mature bond:** Verify the current blockchain timestamp exceeds the
maturity date—the mature() function remains disabled until maturity arrives.
Check your address has GOVERNANCE_ROLE by viewing the role assignments on the
bond details page. Ensure the bond hasn't already been matured by checking the
current lifecycle state.

**Mint fails for specific recipient:** Verify the recipient's OnchainID is
registered in the identity registry by searching for their address on the
Participants page. Check the recipient has all required claims: accredited
investor status if using Regulation D, appropriate KYC verification level,
correct jurisdiction. Confirm the recipient is not on any blocklist by reviewing
compliance module settings. Try minting to a known-compliant address to isolate
whether the issue is recipient-specific or affects all mints.

**Yield add-on not available after deployment:** The yield module must be
explicitly enabled during bond creation—it's an optional add-on that integrates
at deployment time. You cannot add the yield module to existing bonds; the smart
contract architecture doesn't support post-deployment module injection. If you
need scheduled coupon calculations for a bond you've already deployed, you must
redeploy with the yield add-on enabled and migrate bondholders to the new
contract.

**Transfer blocked by compliance:** Check the compliance dashboard to see which
specific rule blocked the transfer—country restrictions, missing claims, time
lock, or transfer limit. Verify both sender and recipient have valid OnchainIDs
in the identity registry. Review the compliance module configuration to ensure
rules match your offering requirements—sometimes overly restrictive settings
block legitimate transfers. Use the compliance simulation tool to test transfers
before executing them on-chain.

For additional help, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) or
contact SettleMint support with your contract address and transaction hash for
specific transaction failures.

## Next steps

After successfully issuing your bond token, onboard additional investors by
following [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) to
verify and whitelist bondholders—ensure each investor has required OnchainID
claims before attempting to mint bonds to them.

Execute corporate actions by reviewing
[Corporate actions](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/corporate-actions) for
special events beyond standard coupon payments—early redemptions, tender offers,
or extraordinary distributions all require specific workflows.

Monitor compliance and operations through the fixed income dashboard to track
transfer restrictions and violations, configure alerts for low yield wallet
balances at least 48 hours before payment dates, and review holder reports
regularly to understand bondholder composition and concentration.

Integrate payment rails by setting up
[Fiat bridge](/docs/user-guides/operations/fiat-bridge) to connect traditional
banking for investors who need off-chain settlement, and configure SWIFT or SEPA
messaging for institutional investors requiring legacy payment infrastructure
integration.

## See also

**Related guides:**

- [Issue equity](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-equity) - Tokenize
  shares with voting rights and dividend distributions
- [Issue a fund](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-fund) - Create
  investment fund tokens with NAV tracking
- [Getting started](/docs/user-guides/getting-started) - Complete platform setup
  tutorial

**Reference documentation:**

- [Bond contract reference](/docs/developer-guides/smart-contracts/contract-reference#iatkbond) -
  Technical implementation details and function specifications
- [Compliance modules](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/identity-compliance) -
  Available restriction rules and configuration options
- [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) - Resolve common bond
  token issues
