---
title: Issue a stablecoin
description:
  Stablecoins maintain a price peg to fiat currencies through reserve backing,
  redemption mechanisms, and compliance frameworks. This guide explains the
  economics of stablecoin design, regulatory requirements under MiCA and e-money
  frameworks, and how DALP vault architecture enables transparent reserve
  management with real-time proof-of-reserves.
pageTitle: Issue a stablecoin (Fiat-pegged tokens with reserve backing)
tags: [how-to, stablecoin, fiat-backed, reserves, peg-maintenance, MiCA]
---

**Who should read this:** Payment service providers, money transmitters,
financial institutions issuing fiat-backed digital currencies, and treasury
teams managing stablecoin reserves.

**Time required:** 25-30 minutes for deployment; additional setup time for
reserve attestation, banking integration, and regulatory compliance workflows.

**Prerequisites:**

- Completed [Getting started](/docs/user-guides/getting-started) onboarding
- Stablecoin system factory deployed during initial setup
- Banking relationships established for fiat custody or partnerships with
  regulated stablecoin issuers (Circle, Paxos, etc.)
- Regulatory framework determined: e-money license (EMD2/MiCA in EU), money
  transmitter licenses (US states), or Payment Services Directive compliance
- Independent auditor or attestation service contracted for reserve verification

## Understanding stablecoin economics

Stablecoins solve a fundamental problem in digital asset markets: price
volatility. While Bitcoin and Ethereum fluctuate dramatically, stablecoins
maintain a consistent value pegged to traditional currencies like USD, EUR, or
GBP. This price stability makes them practical for payments, treasury
management, and cross-border settlement.

A USD stablecoin aims to trade at exactly $1.00 through an arbitrage mechanism.
When market price drifts above $1.02, arbitrageurs mint new tokens at par and
sell them at market price, pocketing the spread while increasing supply and
pushing price down. When price drops below $0.98, arbitrageurs buy cheap tokens
and redeem them at par, reducing supply and restoring the peg. This arbitrage
mechanism only functions when minting and redemption are instant, liquid, and
trustworthy—all enforced programmatically in DALP's vault architecture.

### Collateral models and reserve backing

Fiat-backed stablecoins like USDC, USDT, and EURC hold $1 of cash or cash
equivalents in reserve for every token in circulation. Tether holds commercial
paper and treasury bills; Circle holds only cash and short-term US treasuries.
This 1:1 backing provides strong price stability and regulatory clarity, but
requires banking relationships, custodians, and periodic attestations.
Fiat-backed models dominate the market because regulators understand them—they
operate like digital bank notes.

Algorithmic stablecoins (historical examples: Terra UST, Basis) attempt to
maintain pegs through smart contract mechanisms without collateral backing.
These designs collapsed catastrophically in 2022 when market confidence broke,
triggering death spirals where falling prices caused more selling. Regulators
globally now treat pure algorithmic stablecoins with extreme skepticism. Some
hybrid models (DAI) use overcollateralization with crypto assets instead of
fiat—providing censorship resistance at the cost of capital efficiency.

The economic tradeoff is clear: fiat backing requires operational overhead
(banking, attestations, custody) but delivers regulatory acceptance and user
trust. Algorithmic designs promise capital efficiency but carry existential
risk. For institutional use cases, fiat backing remains the only viable path.

### Regulatory landscape and compliance requirements

Markets in Crypto-Assets Regulation (MiCA) took effect in the EU in 2024,
establishing the first comprehensive stablecoin regulatory framework. MiCA
classifies stablecoins as "e-money tokens" (EMTs) when pegged 1:1 to a single
fiat currency, requiring issuers to hold e-money licenses and maintain 100%
reserves in segregated accounts. Significant EMTs (over €5M daily transactions
or 1M holders) face additional capital requirements, governance standards, and
daily reserve reporting to regulators.

The United States takes a state-by-state approach through money transmitter
licensing. Circle obtained licenses in all 50 states to issue USDC; new issuers
face 2-3 years of regulatory applications and millions in compliance costs.
Federal legislation (stablecoin bills in Congress) aims to create a unified
framework, likely requiring federally chartered institutions or state-regulated
entities with Federal Reserve supervision.

Global convergence is emerging: Singapore (MAS Payment Services Act), UK (FCA
e-money rules), Japan (Payment Services Act amendments), and other jurisdictions
increasingly require stablecoin issuers to hold reserves with local banks,
maintain capital buffers, and provide monthly attestations. The common thread:
regulators want proof that every token has real-world backing.

## DALP vault architecture for transparent reserves

Traditional stablecoins like USDC maintain reserves in bank accounts managed by
custodians. Users trust Circle's monthly attestations from Grant Thornton, but
cannot verify reserves in real-time. This opacity creates systemic risk—Tether
faced years of controversy over whether reserves actually existed.

DALP's vault architecture changes this model fundamentally. Reserve collateral
lives in smart contract vaults with transparent, on-chain accounting. When you
mint 1,000 PUSD tokens, the vault records exactly which USDC tokens back them.
When users redeem tokens, the vault burns them atomically and releases
collateral. Observers can verify reserve ratios at any block—no waiting for
monthly auditor reports.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    A(Issuer deposits USDC into DALP vault) --> B(Vault records collateral increase)
    B --> C(Issuer mints stablecoin tokens to user)
    C --> D(Total supply increases)
    D --> E(Reserve ratio = vault balance / total supply)
    E --> F(Real-time observability dashboard displays ratio)
    
    G(User redeems stablecoin tokens) --> H(Vault burns tokens atomically)
    H --> I(Vault releases USDC to user)
    I --> J(Total supply decreases)
    J --> E
    
    classDef primary fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef secondary fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef tertiary fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef quaternary fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    class A,C primary
    class E tertiary
    class F secondary
    class H quaternary
`}
/>

Instead of trusting Circle's bank accounts, users trust the blockchain's
execution layer. The vault contract is non-upgradeable and permissionless for
reads—anyone can audit reserves. This transparency satisfies MiCA's reserve
disclosure requirements automatically and enables algorithmic arbitrage that
keeps the peg tight. Unlike stablecoins that rely on fiat bank custody, DALP
vaults provide cryptographic proof of reserves updated every block.

## Reserve management through observability dashboards

The Reserves dashboard provides real-time visibility into collateral health that
traditional stablecoins cannot match. Treasury operators monitor
collateralization ratio (vault balance ÷ total supply × 100%), which must stay
above 100% or minting pauses automatically. The dashboard shows reserve
composition breakdown by asset type (USDC, USDT, tokenized treasuries) with
allocation percentages, excess reserves providing redemption liquidity and
operational flexibility, and reserve ratio history with 30-day trend charts
showing lowest/highest ratios and alert thresholds.

When ratio drops below 102%, the system displays a yellow warning. Below 100%, a
red alert appears and minting freezes. Below your configured circuit breaker
threshold (typically 95%), redemptions pause automatically to protect remaining
holders. This programmatic risk management replaces manual reconciliation cycles
that introduce human error.

Traditional stablecoin issuers reconcile reserves weekly or monthly, aggregating
bank statements, custodian reports, and internal ledgers. This delayed
visibility means management learns about reserve shortfalls days after they
occur. DALP's vault architecture provides block-by-block reserve tracking,
triggering alerts within seconds of ratio breaches. USDC publishes reserve
attestations monthly through Grant Thornton LLP, verifying that reserves match
circulating supply. This attestation costs Circle approximately $50,000-100,000
per month and requires 2-3 weeks of data collection, auditor review, and report
publication. DALP's vault transparency enables continuous attestation—any
observer can verify reserves at any moment by querying the blockchain.

### Cryptographic proof-of-reserves

The vault contract exposes a `getReserveProof()` function that returns Merkle
proofs demonstrating reserve backing without revealing individual user balances.
External verifiers can validate that total supply matches the sum of all user
balances (no hidden inflation), vault collateral balance exceeds or equals total
supply, and there's no double-counting of reserves across multiple token
contracts. This cryptographic auditability satisfies MiCA's requirement for
"robust and reliable verification mechanisms" and provides users with
mathematical certainty instead of auditor opinions.

<Steps>

<Step>

## Step 1: Navigate to stablecoin creation

From the main dashboard, select **Asset Management** in the left sidebar, then
choose **Stablecoins** from the asset type list. Click **Create New Stablecoin**
to begin configuration. The stablecoin wizard guides you through economic
parameters, reserve settings, compliance frameworks, and operational roles
specific to maintaining a price peg.

![Stablecoin creation navigation](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Asset
Management section showing existing stablecoins with circulating supply, reserve
ratios, and peg status indicators_

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 2: Configure token economics and peg parameters

Enter the token's identifying information: full legal name matching regulatory
filings (e.g., "Platform USD Stablecoin"), trading symbol indicating currency
(e.g., "PUSD" for USD-pegged, "PEUR" for EUR-pegged), token divisibility
(typically 6 decimals for cent-level precision like USDC or 18 decimals for full
EVM precision like DAI), and initial supply (typically 0 for stablecoins—mint
only after reserve funding).

Include currency designation in the symbol to clarify peg target. "PUSD"
immediately signals USD backing, while "PST" (Platform Stable Token) creates
ambiguity. Clear naming reduces user confusion during market volatility. Six
decimals matches traditional finance (cents) and reduces gas costs for
transfers. Eighteen decimals provides maximum DeFi composability—most AMMs and
lending protocols expect 18-decimal tokens.

Define the currency relationship by selecting the fiat currency your token
tracks: USD (most common), EUR, GBP, JPY, CHF, or custom. This determines price
targets for monitoring and redemption calculations. Specify the token-to-fiat
exchange rate—standard 1:1 peg means 1 token = 1 unit of fiat currency (1 PUSD =
$1.00 USD). Set acceptable deviation before triggering alerts: a 2% tolerance
means prices between $0.98-$1.02 are normal; deviations beyond this range
trigger arbitrage recommendations.

![Token configuration form](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Basic token
information fields with real-time validation showing symbol availability and
decimal precision implications_

### Collateralization model configuration

Reserve ratio determines backing strength. Enter 100 for 100% backing (every
token backed by $1 of reserves), or higher for overcollateralization (105 means
$1.05 backing per token). MiCA and most e-money regulations require minimum 100%
reserves. Overcollateralization provides operational buffers for settlement
timing mismatches (wire transfers take 1-2 days, but tokens redeem instantly),
market maker liquidity (keeping tokens available for arbitrageurs without
depleting reserves), and collateral valuation fluctuations (if you hold treasury
bills worth $1M today, they might be worth $995K tomorrow).

Circle maintains approximately 100% reserves in cash and treasuries. Tether
historically claimed 100% but faced scrutiny over commercial paper valuations.
Your ratio choice signals risk philosophy to users and regulators.

![Peg and collateral configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Peg
currency selector, ratio input, and collateralization ratio with visual
indicator showing minimum regulatory requirements_

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 3: Configure DALP vault reserve management

Enter the Ethereum address holding collateral assets as your reserve wallet.
This wallet must contain USDC, USDT, or other approved stablecoins equal to or
exceeding your initial token supply. The system monitors this address
continuously, calculating reserve ratios in real-time. For diversification, add
multiple reserve wallets—if you hold $5M USDC at Bank A's custodian and $5M in
tokenized treasuries at Institution B, configure both addresses. The vault
aggregates balances across all reserve sources.

Define which assets count as reserves through collateral composition rules.
Fiat-backed stablecoins (USDC, USDT, EURC) provide direct 1:1 equivalents with
no haircut if matching your peg currency. Tokenized treasury bills (Backed
Finance TBIIL, Ondo OUSG) are considered cash equivalents, typically with 1-2%
haircut for interest rate risk. Tokenized money market funds are similar to
treasuries but with management fees requiring 2-5% haircut. Off-chain bank
deposits are tracked through oracle attestations and require independent auditor
verification.

For each collateral type, configure the asset address (ERC-20 contract) for
on-chain assets, haircut percentage as a discount factor for risk management (5%
haircut means $100 of asset counts as $95 of reserves), and maximum allocation
as concentration limits preventing over-reliance on single asset (e.g., max 40%
USDT, max 30% treasuries).

![Reserve configuration interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Reserve
wallet management showing multiple custody addresses, collateral asset
allocation table with current holdings, haircuts, and allocation percentages_

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Tether's reserve controversy stemmed from unclear collateral composition. In
  2019, disclosures revealed only 74% cash backing, with the remainder in loans
  to affiliated entities and commercial paper of unknown credit quality. Users
  lost confidence, causing temporary depegging to $0.92. MiCA's transparency
  requirements mandate daily disclosure of reserve composition precisely to
  prevent such opacity. DALP's on-chain vault accounting makes composition
  visible in real-time—users don't wait for quarterly reports to verify backing.
</Callout>

### Observability dashboard integration for reserves

Once configured, the Reserve Health dashboard tracks total reserves aggregated
across all custody addresses and collateral types, weighted reserve value after
applying haircuts (e.g., $10M holdings with 2% average haircut = $9.8M reserve
value), collateralization ratio calculated as (weighted reserves ÷ circulating
supply) × 100%, 30-day minimum ratio showing lowest point reached to demonstrate
stress test resilience, and reserve composition pie chart with visual allocation
breakdown.

Alert thresholds trigger notifications across zones: Green zone (105%+)
indicates healthy buffer with minting enabled without restrictions. Yellow zone
(100-105%) is acceptable but requires close monitoring and consideration of
reserve additions. Red zone (100% or below) pauses minting automatically and
prioritizes reserve additions. Circuit breaker (below configured threshold)
pauses redemptions and activates emergency protocols.

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 4: Configure minting and redemption through DvP settlement

Permissioned minting ensures only authorized treasury operators create new
tokens. Toggle this to Enabled and configure proof-of-reserve requirements—when
enabled, each mint transaction must include a `collateralReference` field
(transaction hash or bank wire reference) proving reserves increased
correspondingly. This creates an immutable audit trail linking every token to
specific reserve deposits. Set minimum issuance floor amount (e.g., $10,000
equivalent) to reduce operational overhead—processing 100 × $1,000 requests
costs more in compliance review and gas fees than 10 × $10,000 requests.

Configure issuance fee in basis points charged on minting (e.g., 10 bps = 0.1%).
Circle charges nothing for USDC minting but captures spread through interest on
reserves. Fee revenue helps offset attestation costs and infrastructure
overhead. Set daily mint cap as maximum supply expansion per 24-hour period,
preventing sudden reserve strain. If you hold $50M reserves and set a $5M daily
cap, reserves can't drop below 90% overnight from rapid issuance.

Add wallet addresses permitted to execute minting as authorized issuers. Each
issuer receives a `SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE` grant. Configure per-issuer daily
mint cap and single transaction maximum to prevent accidental over-minting from
human error (treasury operator types $10M instead of $1M). Only authorized
issuers can mint tokens. Redemption (burning) is typically permissionless—any
token holder can redeem for reserves, aligning with MiCA's requirement that
users have unconditional redemption rights at par.

![Issuance configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Minting settings
showing authorization requirements, proof of reserve toggle, minimum amount, fee
structure, and daily caps with current utilization_

### Redemption workflow and DvP settlement

Toggle redemption enabled to control whether users can burn tokens for
fiat/collateral. Disabling redemptions breaks the arbitrage mechanism that
maintains the peg, so this setting should only be used during emergency circuit
breaker activations. Set minimum redemption floor amount (e.g., $1,000)—small
redemptions create operational burden since processing a $50 redemption requires
the same KYC checks, wire fees, and accounting as a $50,000 redemption.

Configure redemption fee in basis points charged on burning. Circle charges zero
for USDC redemptions above minimum thresholds. Some issuers charge 10-25 bps to
cover wire fees and operational overhead. High redemption fees weaken arbitrage
incentives and can cause persistent depegging.

Define settlement time for how quickly users receive fiat when redeeming tokens.
T+0 (same-day) provides instant settlement for collateral-based redemptions—burn
tokens and receive USDC immediately through DALP's atomic DvP settlement. This
requires vault holding liquid on-chain stablecoins. T+1 (next business day) is
standard for domestic wire transfers where treasury receives redemption request
today, initiates wire, and user receives fiat tomorrow. T+2 (two business days)
accommodates international wires or ACH transfers. Faster settlement strengthens
peg maintenance—if redemptions take three days, arbitrageurs avoid them,
allowing price to drift further below peg.

Set daily redemption cap as maximum redemption volume per 24 hours. If
circulating supply is $50M and you set a $10M daily cap, maximum possible
redemptions are 20% of supply per day. This prevents bank runs while maintaining
meaningful redemption access. Configure reserve threshold circuit breaker to
automatically pause redemptions if reserve ratio drops below configured
percentage (e.g., 95%). This protects remaining holders from reserve depletion,
though it also breaks peg arbitrage.

![Redemption configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Redemption
settings panel showing enabled toggle, minimum/fee inputs, settlement timing
selector, daily caps, and circuit breaker threshold_

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    A(Token price drops to $0.97) --> B(Arbitrageur identifies 3% profit opportunity)
    B --> C(Arbitrageur buys tokens on DEX at $0.97)
    C --> D(Arbitrageur submits redemption request for $1.00)
    D --> E(Vault burns tokens atomically via DvP)
    E --> F(Vault releases USDC to arbitrageur)
    F --> G(Arbitrageur nets $0.03 per token profit)
    G --> H(Reduced token supply pushes price back to $1.00)
    
    I(Token price rises to $1.03) --> J(Arbitrageur identifies 3% profit opportunity)
    J --> K(Arbitrageur deposits USDC collateral to vault)
    K --> L(Arbitrageur mints tokens at $1.00 via DvP)
    L --> M(Arbitrageur sells tokens on DEX at $1.03)
    M --> N(Increased token supply pushes price back to $1.00)
    
    classDef primary fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef secondary fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef tertiary fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    classDef quaternary fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    
    class A,I quaternary
    class E,L primary
    class H,N secondary
`}
/>

DALP's atomic DvP (Delivery vs Payment) settlement enables instant T+0
redemptions—burn tokens and receive collateral in a single transaction. This
provides faster arbitrage than traditional stablecoins relying on T+1 wire
transfers, keeping the peg tighter and enabling arbitrageurs to respond within
seconds rather than days.

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 5: Set compliance framework and restrictions

Choose the regulatory regime governing your stablecoin issuance. Markets in
Crypto-Assets (MiCA) is EU regulation effective June 2024, requiring e-money
token (EMT) authorization, 100% reserves in segregated accounts, daily reserve
reporting to supervisory authority, public disclosure of reserve composition,
and comprehensive governance framework. E-Money Directive 2 (EMD2) is
predecessor to MiCA, still valid until MiCA fully supersedes it, requiring
e-money institution (EMI) license, 100% safeguarding of funds, passporting
rights across EU member states, and six-month audited financial statements.

Money Transmitter Licensing (US) applies state-by-state requirements, typically
requiring surety bonds ($25,000-$500,000 per state), audited financial
statements, background checks on principals, and minimum net worth requirements
($100,000-$1M depending on state). Payment Services Directive 2 (PSD2) is EU
framework for payment institutions, permitting e-money issuance if authorized as
payment institution (PI) or EMI with capital adequacy, safeguarding
arrangements, and transaction reporting.

Selecting a framework pre-populates compliance modules with required identity
verification levels, transaction monitoring thresholds, and reporting templates.

![Regulatory framework selection](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Framework cards showing MiCA, EMD2, MTL, PSD2, and Custom options with key
requirements, capital minimums, and geographic scope_

### Identity verification and transaction restrictions

Based on your selected framework, configure OnchainID claim requirements for
token holders. Choose KYC verification level as Basic (Level 1) for natural
persons with identity document verification, or Enhanced (Level 2) for high-risk
jurisdictions requiring proof of address and source of funds. MiCA requires
Enhanced KYC for transactions exceeding €1,000 cumulative per customer. Require
jurisdiction verification to confirm holder's country of residence, sanctions
screening for OFAC, EU, UN sanctions list checks with claims updating
continuously, PEP screening for politically exposed persons requiring Enhanced
Due Diligence, and business verification for institutional holders requiring
business registration documents, beneficial ownership disclosure (UBO), and
authorized signatory verification.

Configure AML controls enforced in smart contracts including transaction limits
as maximum transfer amount per transaction, velocity limits as maximum
cumulative volume per address per time period (e.g., $50,000 per address per 24
hours), geographic restrictions to block transfers to addresses with verified
identities in prohibited jurisdictions, and blocklist management to maintain
list of sanctioned addresses that cannot hold or transfer tokens.

Traditional stablecoins like USDC implement compliance through off-chain
processes—Circle reviews transactions, then manually freezes accounts. This
reactive approach means sanctioned addresses can receive tokens before freezing
occurs. DALP enforces restrictions in smart contracts—transfers to invalid
addresses revert immediately, preventing compliance violations before they
happen.

![Compliance modules](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Compliance
configuration showing identity verification requirements, transaction monitoring
thresholds, geographic restrictions, and blocklist management panels_

### Reserve attestation automation and transparency

Schedule periodic reserve verification as daily, weekly, or monthly. MiCA
significant EMTs require daily reserve reporting to supervisors. Public
attestations build user confidence—Circle publishes monthly attestations, Tether
quarterly. Contract an independent auditor (Big Four accounting firm),
blockchain audit firm (Trail of Bits, OpenZeppelin), or proof-of-reserves
service (Chainlink Proof of Reserve). Enter provider's address or API endpoint
for automated attestations.

Choose how attestations are shared: on-chain hash commitment where auditor posts
SHA-256 hash of attestation report to blockchain, on-chain full report storing
complete attestation data on-chain (expensive for detailed reports), or
off-chain publication where auditor posts report to website with no on-chain
component. Enable public visibility for total supply, reserve balance showing
real-time aggregate reserve value, collateralization ratio updated per block,
and redemption statistics with aggregate metrics including daily redemption
volume, average settlement time, and redemption fee revenue.

MiCA requires public disclosure of reserve composition, collateralization ratio,
and redemption rights. DALP's vault transparency through observability
dashboards satisfies these requirements automatically, providing continuous
attestation rather than delayed monthly reports.

![Attestation configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Attestation
settings showing frequency selector, provider address input, publication method
options (on-chain hash, full report, off-chain), and transparency toggles_

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 6: Assign operational roles with multisig security

Grant permissions for stablecoin lifecycle management. Use multisig wallets for
all privileged roles to prevent single-point-of-failure. GOVERNANCE_ROLE manages
compliance policies and parameters—configure compliance modules (KYC
requirements, transaction limits), update reserve composition rules and haircut
percentages, modify attestation schedule and provider, and pause/unpause
issuance and redemptions during market stress. Typically assign to compliance
officer multisig or regulatory affairs wallet.

SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE controls token supply—mint new stablecoins after
verifying reserve deposits, burn stablecoins during redemption processing, and
manage authorized issuer list and per-issuer limits. Typically assign to
treasury operations multisig with 2-of-3 signature requirement. CUSTODIAN_ROLE
enforces sanctions and court orders—freeze individual accounts flagged by
compliance, execute forced transfers (regulatory seizures, court judgments),
recover tokens from lost private keys (with legal documentation), and manage
blocklist additions/removals. Typically assign to AML compliance officer
multisig.

EMERGENCY_ROLE handles security incidents—pause all token transfers during smart
contract exploits, activate circuit breaker (pause minting/redemption), and
unpause after incident resolution. Typically assign to security operations
multisig with 3-of-5 signature requirement.

![Role assignment interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Role
configuration form showing four roles with wallet address inputs, permission
descriptions, current role holders, and multisig status indicators_

<Callout type="warning" title="Security requirement">
  Never assign privileged roles to single-signature wallets. A compromised
  SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE key could mint unlimited tokens, destroying peg
  credibility and collateralization ratio. Use multisig wallets (Gnosis Safe)
  with geographically distributed signers. For EMERGENCY_ROLE, require 3-of-5
  signatures to balance security (prevents single compromised key) with
  responsiveness (can act during genuine emergencies).
</Callout>

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 7: Review configuration and deploy contracts

Verify your configuration before deployment. Confirm token name and symbol match
regulatory filings and legal entity documentation, peg currency and ratio
correctly reflect intended currency relationship, collateralization model meets
or exceeds regulatory requirements (minimum 100% for MiCA/EMD2), reserve wallet
addresses are verified as secure multisig custody with appropriate signers,
collateral composition rules align with risk management policy, issuance and
redemption parameters match operational procedures and compliance requirements,
compliance framework matches obtained licenses (MiCA, EMD2, MTL, etc.), all
operational roles are assigned to secure multisig wallets with documented
signers, attestation provider is contracted and connection tested, and reserve
wallet(s) are funded with initial collateral equal to or exceeding initial mint
plans.

![Deployment summary](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Pre-deployment
review showing stablecoin parameters, peg settings, reserve configuration,
compliance framework, role assignments, and attestation schedule in organized
sections_

Click **Deploy Stablecoin** to begin contract deployment. The system deploys
stablecoin proxy contract (upgradeable for parameter adjustments,
non-upgradeable for core economic logic) in 15-20 seconds, initializes with your
parameters (name, symbol, decimals, peg target) in 10 seconds, configures
reserve vault and links custody addresses in 10 seconds, assigns roles to
specified multisig wallets with 5 seconds per role, registers with identity
registry and compliance modules in 10 seconds, and emits `StablecoinDeployed`
event with contract address. Total deployment time: 60-90 seconds depending on
network congestion.

Enter your PIN or OTP to sign deployment transactions. The deployment process
requires multiple signatures if your wallet is a multisig—coordinate with
co-signers before initiating.

![Deployment progress](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Deployment progress
modal showing step-by-step status with checkmarks, timestamps, transaction
hashes, and estimated remaining time_

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 8: Fund vault reserves and configure attestation

After successful deployment, note the stablecoin contract address and click
**View Stablecoin** to navigate to the token dashboard. Verify token information
(name, symbol, decimals, peg target) displays correctly, reserve vault address
matches configured custody wallets, collateralization ratio shows 100%+ if
reserves pre-funded or 0% if awaiting funding, roles are assigned to correct
multisig addresses, and compliance modules are enabled with proper claim
requirements.

![Stablecoin overview dashboard](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Token
details page showing key metrics (total supply, market cap, reserve balance),
collateralization ratio gauge, peg status indicator, and active role holders_

### Fund DALP vault with reserve collateral

Establish initial collateral before first mint. For on-chain collateral (USDC,
USDT), transfer stablecoins to reserve wallet address shown in Reserves tab,
wait for transaction confirmation (1-2 blocks), refresh Reserve Health dashboard
to verify balance appears, and confirm collateralization ratio displays 100%+
(infinite if no tokens minted yet). For off-chain collateral (bank deposits),
wire fiat to designated bank account per your banking relationship, wait for
funds to clear (1-3 business days), coordinate with attestation provider to
verify deposit, upload attestation report via Attestation &gt; Post Report, and
reserve balance updates after attestation processed.

Maintain 105-110% collateralization as operational buffer. This excess covers
wire transfer timing delays (customer deposits fiat Tuesday, but wire doesn't
settle until Thursday), market making needs (keeping tokens available on DEXs
without depleting primary reserves), and interest rate fluctuations on treasury
collateral (if you hold T-bills, their mark-to-market value changes daily).

### Configure attestation automation with observability integration

Set up independent reserve verification to satisfy regulatory requirements and
build user trust. For automated attestation services, navigate to Attestation
tab, click Configure Provider, enter attestation service API endpoint or smart
contract address (e.g., Chainlink Proof of Reserve feed), set attestation
frequency (daily recommended for MiCA significant EMTs), test connection to
verify provider can access reserve wallet data, enable automated attestations,
and system will request attestation per schedule and post results on-chain with
visibility in observability dashboards.

For manual attestation (accounting firms), contract independent auditor (Big
Four firm or specialized blockchain auditor), provide reserve wallet addresses,
bank account details, and collateral composition reports, schedule periodic
attestations (monthly or quarterly), when attestation report is completed upload
PDF via Attestation &gt; Post Report, system generates SHA-256 hash and posts to
blockchain as proof of existence, and full report is hosted at auditor's website
or IPFS with hash verifying integrity. The observability stack tracks
attestation status, displaying last attestation timestamp, next scheduled
attestation, and historical attestation results across your monitoring
dashboards.

Circle publishes USDC attestations monthly through Grant Thornton LLP. Tether
publishes quarterly, historically receiving criticism for infrequency. Choose
frequency balancing cost (attestations cost $5,000-$50,000 each) and
transparency expectations.

![Attestation setup](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Attestation
configuration showing provider connection status, frequency settings, last
attestation timestamp, and manual report upload interface with hash
verification_

Enable issuance after reserves funded and attestation configured. Navigate to
Settings &gt; Issuance, toggle Issuance Enabled to On, verify reserve wallet
shows adequate balance, review authorized issuer list contains correct treasury
operation wallets, and save changes. Authorized issuers can now execute minting
following your operational workflow: customer wires $100,000 to your bank
account, treasury confirms wire cleared, treasury mints 100,000 PUSD to
customer's OnchainID-verified address using DvP settlement, and reserve ratio
updates automatically with metrics visible in observability dashboards.

</Step>

<Step>

## Step 9: Operate stablecoin lifecycle with DvP settlement

When customers deposit fiat collateral, mint corresponding tokens. Customer
initiates fiat deposit by sending wire transfer to your bank account with
reference number or transferring USDC/USDT to your reserve custody address.
Verify deposit cleared and available (wait for wire settlement or blockchain
confirmation). Navigate to Actions &gt; Mint Stablecoins and enter recipient
address (customer's OnchainID-verified wallet), mint amount equal to deposited
collateral (e.g., $100,000 deposit = 100,000 tokens), and collateral reference
as transaction hash (on-chain) or wire reference number (off-chain). Review
collateralization ratio projection showing pre-mint and post-mint ratios tracked
in observability dashboards, then click Execute Mint.

System validation checks before minting confirm recipient has valid OnchainID
with required claims (KYC level, jurisdiction, sanctions clear), reserve balance
sufficient to maintain collateralization ratio above minimum, mint amount within
authorized issuer's daily limit, and recipient address not on blocklist. If
validation fails, transaction reverts with specific error message visible in
transaction monitoring dashboards.

![Minting interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Mint stablecoins form
showing recipient address input with OnchainID verification status, amount
field, collateral reference input, pre/post collateralization ratio comparison,
and execute button_

The `collateralReference` parameter creates immutable audit trail. Regulators or
auditors can query: "Show me the collateral deposit backing these tokens." Your
system produces the transaction hash or wire reference, proving 1:1
correspondence. This satisfies MiCA's requirement for "robust and reliable
verification mechanisms."

<Callout type="default" title="For developers">
  See [Contract
  Reference](/docs/developer-guides/smart-contracts/contract-reference) for
  technical details on the `mint()` function, proof-of-reserve encoding, and
  collateral verification mechanisms. Developers integrating programmatic
  minting should implement retry logic for transient validation failures (e.g.,
  OnchainID claim temporarily stale).
</Callout>

### Process redemptions through DvP settlement

When customers burn tokens to receive fiat, process redemption requests.
Customer submits redemption request via dApp—entering redemption amount (must
meet minimum threshold), selecting payout method (wire transfer for fiat, or
stablecoin collateral for instant DvP settlement), and providing banking details
(account number, routing, SWIFT) for fiat redemptions. Request appears in
Redemptions &gt; Pending queue. Review request details including customer
identity (OnchainID) and KYC status, redemption amount and payout method,
settlement date (T+0, T+1, or T+2 depending on configuration), and current
collateralization ratio impact (preview available in observability dashboards).

Process redemption by clicking Process Redemption. System burns tokens from
customer's address atomically. For stablecoin payout, vault releases USDC/USDT
immediately via DvP settlement (T+0 same-transaction settlement). For fiat
payout, initiate wire transfer through banking partner and mark redemption as
Completed after fiat transfer confirmed. Collateralization ratio updates
automatically with reserve balance decreasing proportionally, tracked in
real-time through observability dashboards.

Circle offers T+1 settlement for USDC redemptions above $100,000. Smaller
redemptions face longer delays due to operational overhead. Consider tiered
settlement: instant DvP for large redemptions (attract arbitrageurs), T+1-T+2
for retail. Traditional stablecoin redemption workflows involve customer support
ticket, KYC verification, compliance review, treasury approval, manual wire
initiation, bank processing, and reconciliation—a multi-day process costing
$25-$75 per redemption in labor and overhead. DALP automates KYC verification
(OnchainID claims checked in smart contract) and compliance screening
(transaction monitoring rules), reducing manual steps to wire initiation only.
Operational costs drop 70-85%, and settlement accelerates to T+0 or T+1.

![Redemption queue](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Redemption requests
table showing pending requests with customer OnchainID, redemption amount,
payout method, settlement date, and process/reject buttons_

Reserve balance decreases with each redemption. If ratio approaches minimum
threshold (100%), the observability dashboards alert treasury to pause issuance
until reserves replenished, reduce reserve haircuts (if safe to do so), or add
collateral to buffer reserves. If ratio drops below configured circuit breaker
threshold (typically 95%), redemptions pause automatically to prevent reserve
depletion and protect remaining holders.

### Monitor peg health through observability dashboards

Track secondary market pricing and arbitrage opportunities through the Peg
Health dashboard. View current market price from real-time DEX oracles (Uniswap
TWAP, Chainlink feeds), target peg price (always 1.00 for 1:1 pegged
stablecoins), deviation percentage showing how far current price differs from
target (e.g., +2.3% = $1.023), trading volume with 24-hour volume across tracked
DEXs and CEXs, and price history chart with 30-day trend showing volatility and
deviation patterns.

If trading above peg (e.g., $1.02), token demand exceeds supply—users pay
premium because they can't mint tokens fast enough. Increase issuance capacity
(raise daily mint caps for authorized issuers), signal willingness to mint at
par (post liquidity depth at $1.00 on DEX order books), add DEX liquidity
(provide PUSD/USDC pair at tight spreads), and verify redemption minimums aren't
blocking small arbitrageurs. If trading below peg (e.g., $0.98), token supply
exceeds demand—users dump tokens because redemption is difficult. Verify
redemptions are enabled and processing quickly via DvP settlement, reduce
redemption minimums (make arbitrage accessible to more participants), buy back
tokens from market using reserve collateral (support price floor), communicate
redemption availability publicly (Twitter, Discord, documentation), and check
observability dashboards for technical issues preventing redemptions (daily caps
exhausted, circuit breaker triggered).

![Peg health dashboard](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Peg monitoring
dashboard showing current price vs target, deviation gauge (green zone ±0.5%,
yellow ±1%, red &gt;2%), price history chart, DEX volume breakdown, and
recommended actions panel_

When PUSD trades at $0.98 on Uniswap, arbitrageurs profit by buying PUSD on
Uniswap at $0.98, redeeming PUSD with issuer at $1.00 via DvP settlement
(receiving USDC or fiat), and netting $0.02 per token (2% return). This
arbitrage reduces circulating supply (tokens burned during redemption) and
increases demand (buying from Uniswap), pushing price back toward $1.00. DALP's
atomic DvP settlement (burn tokens → receive collateral in single transaction)
enables instant T+0 arbitrage when collateral is on-chain stablecoins, creating
tighter peg maintenance than traditional stablecoins relying on T+1 wire
transfers.

<Callout type="default" title="For developers">
  See [Contract
  Reference](/docs/developer-guides/smart-contracts/contract-reference) for
  technical details on peg stability mechanisms, oracle integration for price
  feeds, and redemption queue prioritization algorithms. Developers building
  automated arbitrage bots should monitor `RedemptionRequested` events for queue
  depth.
</Callout>

### Maintain reserve health through observability monitoring

Monitor collateralization ratio continuously through the Reserves dashboard
displaying key metrics. Total supply shows circulating tokens (sum of all holder
balances). Reserve balance displays on-chain collateral (real-time) plus
off-chain collateral (per last attestation). Collateralization ratio is
calculated as (reserve balance ÷ total supply) × 100%. Excess reserves show
absolute amount above minimum backing (e.g., $52M reserves / $50M supply = $2M
excess). Reserve composition displays pie chart showing allocation across USDC,
USDT, treasuries, and bank deposits.

Alert thresholds trigger across zones: Green zone (105%+) indicates healthy
operational buffer with all functions enabled. Yellow alert (100-105%) is
acceptable but requires close monitoring and consideration of adding reserves
before next issuance. Red alert (&lt;100%) falls below minimum regulatory
requirement with minting paused automatically. Circuit breaker (&lt;configured
threshold, typically 95%) activates emergency mode with redemptions paused and
governance intervention required.

As collateral composition drifts from target allocation, rebalance reserves.
Navigate to Reserves &gt; Rebalance, review current vs. target allocation
displayed in observability dashboards, execute transfers to reduce overweight
asset (transfer USDC from reserve wallet to trading account) and increase
underweight asset (buy USDT, transfer to reserve wallet), verify new allocation
meets policy limits, and confirm reserves total remains constant (no change to
collateralization ratio).

Simulate redemption scenarios quarterly to verify reserve adequacy: "What if 20%
of supply redeems in 24 hours?" checking if reserves support $10M outflow, "What
if T-bill collateral drops 2% in value?" verifying ratio stays above 100%, and
"What if primary banking partner freezes account?" confirming backup liquidity
sources suffice. Run stress tests and adjust reserve buffers accordingly,
tracking results through observability metrics.

</Step>

</Steps>

## Common operational workflows

### Handle reserve shortfall detected through monitoring

If collateralization ratio drops below 100% unexpectedly, investigate causes
through observability dashboards. Potential causes include off-chain collateral
revaluation (T-bills declined in value, but attestation hasn't updated
on-chain), unauthorized minting (compromised issuer key), oracle malfunction
(reserve balance reported incorrectly), or accounting error (miscounted
circulating supply). System automatically pauses minting when ratio &lt;100%.
Navigate to Reserves &gt; Diagnostics to investigate using observability tools.
Verify reserve wallet balances manually (check blockchain explorer, bank
statements). Confirm total supply matches sum of holder balances tracked in
monitoring dashboards.

If collateral truly depleted, add reserves immediately (wire fiat, transfer
stablecoins), activate circuit breaker to pause redemptions if needed, and
communicate transparently with users and regulators. If data error, update
attestation with correct reserve balance, fix oracle configuration, and resume
minting after ratio restored with confirmation visible in observability
dashboards.

### Implement circuit breaker during market stress

During severe market volatility or bank runs, activate emergency pause through
EMERGENCY_ROLE multisig. Trigger scenarios include collateralization ratio
dropping below 95% (visible in observability dashboards), redemption volume
exceeding 50% of daily cap in first hour (signals possible run), smart contract
security incident detected through monitoring, banking partner freezing accounts
unexpectedly, or regulatory order requiring suspension.

Navigate to Emergency &gt; Circuit Breaker and click Activate. System
immediately pauses all minting (new issuance blocked) and all redemptions (burn
requests rejected) while existing token transfers continue (holders can still
move tokens between addresses). Public dashboard displays "Circuit Breaker
Active" notice. Communicate incident to users via official channels.

To resolve, investigate root cause and resolve (add reserves, fix technical
issue, coordinate with regulators). Verify reserves adequate and systems
operational through observability dashboards. Governance multisig approves
Deactivate Circuit Breaker requiring 3-of-5 EMERGENCY_ROLE signatures. System
resumes normal operations. Post incident report explaining cause and
remediation.

Circle activated circuit breaker for USDC in March 2023 when Silicon Valley Bank
(holding $3.3B of Circle's reserves) failed. Redemptions paused until FDIC
guaranteed deposits. Transparent communication preserved user confidence.

### Handle sanctioned address through compliance monitoring

When an address appears on OFAC, EU, or UN sanctions lists detected through
compliance monitoring, compliance officer identifies sanctioned address through
screening tool. Navigate to Compliance &gt; Blocklist and click Add Address.
Enter address and select sanction reason (OFAC SDN List, EU Financial Sanctions,
UN Sanctions List, Court Order, or Suspicious Activity Report). Click Freeze and
Blocklist. System immediately prevents all transfers to/from address, freezes
current balance (holder cannot transfer out), and records blocklist event for
audit trail visible in observability dashboards.

If required by regulatory order, use Forced Transfer to move tokens to
segregated law enforcement wallet. Requires CUSTODIAN_ROLE permission and
multisig approval. Circle has frozen hundreds of addresses at law enforcement
request. DALP's protocol-layer enforcement prevents sanctioned addresses from
receiving tokens in the first place—transfers revert before execution,
eliminating need for reactive freezing.

### Increase redemption capacity during high demand

If redemption queues grow during market stress visible in observability
dashboards, respond to scenarios including market volatility increasing
redemption requests 10x normal, competitor stablecoin depegging causing users to
flee to your token then redeem for fiat, or regulatory uncertainty causing users
to exit crypto markets.

Navigate to Settings &gt; Redemptions and click Edit Limits. Increase daily
redemption cap (raise from e.g., $10M to $25M), per-address limit (raise from
e.g., $100K to $250K), and settlement time (if possible, offer T+0 DvP
settlement for large redemptions). Change requires GOVERNANCE_ROLE multisig
approval. Save changes and monitor reserve adequacy through observability
dashboards to handle increased outflow.

Coordinate with banking partners to arrange backup credit line (draw if reserves
run low), convert T-bill holdings to cash for faster liquidity, and transfer
reserves from diversified custody to operational wallet. Announce increased
redemption capacity publicly to reassure users: "To maintain confidence during
market volatility, we've increased daily redemption capacity to $25M and
prioritized T+0 DvP settlement for redemptions above $100K."

## Best practices

Obtain all required licenses before deployment (e-money, money transmitter,
payment services). Establish banking relationships with multiple institutions to
prevent single point of failure if one bank exits crypto. Contract independent
attestation service before launch to provide proof of reserves from day one
building trust. Prepare AML/KYC procedures and screening tools including
OnchainID integration and sanctions list APIs. Test full issuance/redemption
lifecycle in testnet environment to verify settlement timing, compliance checks,
and vault mechanics with observability monitoring.

Maintain 105-110% collateralization continuously as operational buffer covering
timing mismatches and market fluctuations tracked in observability dashboards.
Diversify reserve holdings (50% USDC + 30% T-bills + 20% bank deposits) to
reduce single-asset risk. Keep 10-20% of reserves in liquid on-chain stablecoins
to enable instant T+0 DvP redemptions and arbitrage. Execute attestations on
consistent schedule (daily for MiCA significant EMTs, monthly minimum for
smaller issuances). Reconcile on-chain and off-chain reserves daily through
observability dashboards to catch discrepancies before they compound. Maintain
emergency credit line equal to 20-30% of circulating supply to draw during bank
runs to maintain peg.

Monitor peg health multiple times daily during market volatility through
observability dashboards as price deviations accelerate during stress. Review
blocklist against updated sanctions lists weekly (OFAC updates SDN list several
times monthly). Conduct quarterly stress tests modeling redemption runs, bank
failures, and interest rate shocks with results tracked in observability
metrics. Document all forced transfers and account freezes providing
comprehensive audit trail for regulatory inquiries. Maintain runbook for circuit
breaker activation with clear decision criteria, communication templates, and
resolution procedures.

Publish reserve attestations consistently (monthly minimum, daily preferred)
through automated observability reporting. Provide real-time on-chain reserve
balance visibility leveraging DALP vault transparency and observability
dashboards. Communicate clearly during incidents—Circle's SVB transparency
preserved USDC credibility. Maintain public documentation of compliance
framework so users understand your KYC/AML requirements.

## Troubleshooting

**Deployment fails with "Invalid collateralization ratio"**: Ratio must be ≥100%
and ≤200% (values outside this range suggest configuration error). Enter 100 for
100% backing, 105 for 105%, etc. Do not enter 1.0 (system expects percentage
integer, not decimal).

**Issuance reverts with "Insufficient reserves"**: Mint would drop
collateralization ratio below minimum visible in observability dashboards. Check
reserve wallet balance adequate (query wallet address on blockchain explorer),
off-chain reserves reflected in latest attestation (if using bank deposits),
mint amount correct (decimal precision—minting 100000 with 6 decimals = 0.1
tokens), and collateral tokens approved if using ERC-20 reserves (approve vault
to spend USDC).

**Redemption processing fails with "Recipient OnchainID invalid"**: Redemption
recipient lacks required identity claims. Verify customer has OnchainID
registered, KYC claims current (not expired or revoked) visible in compliance
monitoring, jurisdiction claim meets geographic restrictions, sanctions
screening claim passed, and customer completes identity verification before
reattempting redemption.

**Collateralization ratio showing incorrect value in observability dashboards**:
Refresh reserve balance manually if using off-chain collateral (attestation may
be stale). Verify all reserve wallet addresses configured (missing address =
undercounted reserves). Check for pending mints/burns (ratio updates after
transaction confirms). Confirm haircut percentages correct (5% haircut on $10M
reserves = $9.5M effective value).

**Peg deviating significantly from target (&gt;5%) in monitoring dashboards**:
Verify redemptions enabled (not paused by circuit breaker or governance). Check
redemption accessibility (minimums too high block small arbitrageurs). Review
settlement timing (T+2 redemptions allow wider peg deviations than T+0 DvP
settlement). Monitor DEX liquidity depth through observability dashboards (thin
liquidity causes price volatility). Consider market-making operations (post buy
orders at $0.99, sell orders at $1.01 to stabilize).

For additional troubleshooting, see
[Asset issues](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting/assets) or contact support with
contract address and transaction hashes.

## Next steps

- **Set up fiat bridge with DvP settlement** — Configure
  [Fiat bridge](/docs/user-guides/operations/fiat-bridge) for banking
  integration, wire transfer automation, and multi-currency settlement using
  DALP's atomic DvP mechanisms
- **Configure compliance workflows** — Review
  [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) for KYC/AML
  procedures, sanctions screening, and OnchainID claim verification
- **Understand regulatory requirements** — Deep dive into
  [Compliance certification](/docs/architecture/quality/compliance-certification)
  for MiCA, EMD2, and AML framework details
- **Integrate DEX liquidity** — Deploy Uniswap/Curve pools for secondary market
  trading and arbitrage enablement
- **Monitor operations through observability stack** — Set up
  [Observability dashboards](/docs/architecture/observability/monitoring-metrics)
  for reserve health monitoring, peg deviation alerts, transaction monitoring,
  and DvP settlement tracking
