---
title: Issue a fund token
description:
  Fund tokens represent shares in investment vehicles with automated NAV
  calculations, yield distribution, and portfolio management. This guide walks
  you through deploying open-end, closed-end, or interval fund tokens with
  subscription/redemption workflows, management fee automation, and performance
  tracking. DALP vaults secure fund assets while yield management automates fee
  distributions.
pageTitle: How to issue a fund token (Investment fund units)
tags: [how-to, fund, NAV, fees, fund-management]
---

## Before you start

**Prerequisites:**

- Completed [Getting started](/docs/user-guides/getting-started) onboarding
- Fund system factory deployed during onboarding
- Fund prospectus and investment terms prepared
- Regulatory framework determined (40 Act, UCITS, AIFMD, or custom)

**Time estimate:** 15-20 minutes for fund deployment; additional time for NAV
and fee configuration

**Required knowledge:**

- Basic blockchain wallet operations
- Understanding of investment funds and NAV calculation
- Familiarity with fund regulations (1940 Act, UCITS, AIFMD, etc.)
- Fund administration operations

## Fund launch workflow

The fund launch process involves coordination across three key roles, with
parallel activities and clear handoff points. The diagram below shows how
Product Owners define the fund strategy, Compliance Officers establish
regulatory controls, and Operations teams deploy and activate the fund
infrastructure.

<Mermaid
  chart={`graph TB
    subgraph ProductOwner["Product Owner"]
        DefineStrategy(Define fund strategy<br/>& investment terms)
        SetFees(Configure management<br/>& performance fees)
        ReviewDeploy(Review deployment<br/>summary)
    end
    
    subgraph ComplianceOfficer["Compliance Officer"]
        ConfigRules(Configure compliance<br/>modules & rules)
        ApproveJurisdictions(Approve geographic<br/>restrictions)
        VerifyCompliance(Verify regulatory<br/>framework)
    end
    
    subgraph Operations["Operations"]
        DeployContracts(Deploy fund token<br/>contracts)
        FundVault(Fund DALP vault<br/>with liquidity)
        EnableTrading(Enable subscriptions<br/>& redemptions)
    end
    
    DefineStrategy --> SetFees
    SetFees --> ConfigRules
    ConfigRules --> ApproveJurisdictions
    ConfigRules --> DeployContracts
    ApproveJurisdictions --> VerifyCompliance
    DeployContracts --> FundVault
    ReviewDeploy --> DeployContracts
    VerifyCompliance --> ReviewDeploy
    FundVault --> EnableTrading
    
    style DefineStrategy fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style SetFees fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ReviewDeploy fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ConfigRules fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ApproveJurisdictions fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style VerifyCompliance fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style DeployContracts fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style FundVault fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style EnableTrading fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
`}
/>

## Steps

<Steps>

<Step>

### 1. Navigate to fund creation

Begin by accessing the fund creation interface through your dashboard's asset
management section. Click **Asset Management** in the left sidebar, then select
**Funds** from the asset type list to view your existing fund tokens and
deployment history. The **Create New Fund Token** button at the top right
initiates the deployment wizard that will guide you through configuring your
investment vehicle's parameters.

![Fund creation navigation](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Asset Management section showing Funds category with existing funds list and
Create New Fund Token button_

</Step>

<Step>

### 2. Configure fund parameters

#### Basic token information

Your fund token's identity is established through four essential parameters that
define how units are represented on-chain. The **token name** should match your
prospectus exactly, including the full legal name and share class
designation—for example, "Global Growth Fund Class A Shares" ensures clear
identification in investor portfolios and regulatory filings. Choose a **token
symbol** that's concise yet meaningful, typically 3-5 characters like "GGFA" for
Global Growth Fund Class A.

The **decimals** field determines how finely fund units can be divided, which
affects minimum investment amounts and redemption flexibility. Setting decimals
to 18 enables fractional ownership down to 0.000000000000000001 units, ideal for
high-NAV funds or retail accessibility. For institutional-only funds where whole
units are standard, decimals can be set to 0, though this limits redemption
flexibility. The **initial supply** typically starts at 0 for fund tokens since
units are minted dynamically during subscription processing rather than
pre-minting a fixed amount.

![Fund basic information](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Fund
configuration form showing name, symbol, decimals, and initial supply fields
with validation_

<Callout type="info" title="Naming tip">
  Include both the fund name and share class (Class A/B/C, institutional/retail)
  in your token name. This prevents confusion when managing multiple share
  classes of the same fund and ensures regulatory reporting clearly
  distinguishes between different fee structures and investor types.
</Callout>

#### Fund-specific parameters

**Fund type**

The fund structure you select determines the subscription and redemption
mechanics enforced by your smart contract. **Open-end funds** allow continuous
subscription and redemption at NAV, making them suitable for mutual funds and
daily liquidity vehicles—the contract automatically processes requests based on
your configured cut-off times and settlement cycles. **Closed-end funds** have a
fixed capitalization with units trading on secondary markets at prices that may
differ from NAV, requiring transfer restriction modules rather than subscription
workflows. **Interval funds** blend both approaches with periodic redemption
windows (quarterly or semi-annually), enforcing redemption gates automatically
through the contract's time-lock mechanisms.

This structural choice impacts not only the smart contract's enabled functions
but also integrates with the DALP vault system—open-end funds require dynamic
vault balancing to maintain redemption reserves, while closed-end structures can
optimize vault yields with locked liquidity.

**Share class configuration**

Fee structures are central to your fund's economics and are automated through
the yield management addon. The **management fee** is entered in basis points
(100 basis points equals 1%) and accrues daily based on the fund's AUM,
calculated as (AUM × fee rate) / 365. For example, a 1.5% management fee (150
basis points) on $10 million AUM accrues approximately $410 daily, which the
yield module tracks continuously. The **performance fee** enables carried
interest or incentive fee structures with high-water mark tracking built into
the smart contract—this ensures performance fees are only collected on genuine
outperformance and prevents double-charging after drawdowns.

Your **minimum investment** amounts enforce prospectus requirements on-chain,
automatically rejecting subscription requests below thresholds without manual
intervention. The **redemption notice period** integrates with the calendar
module to enforce advance notice requirements—a 5-day notice period means
redemption requests enter a queue and only become processable after the notice
expires, protecting fund liquidity management.

![Fund type and class configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Fund parameters showing fund type dropdown, management fee input,
performance fee toggle, and minimum investment field_

#### NAV tracking setup

**NAV calculation**

Net asset value management sits at the heart of fund operations, pricing both
new subscriptions and outgoing redemptions. Your **initial NAV** establishes the
starting price per unit, typically set to a round number like 100.00 or 1,000.00
for psychological appeal and ease of percentage calculations—starting at 100
means a NAV of 110 represents a 10% gain. The **NAV currency** determines the
denomination for all calculations and should match your fund's functional
currency in the prospectus (USD, EUR, etc.).

Your **valuation frequency** defines how often NAV updates are required and
impacts the observability metrics tracked by the platform. Daily NAV updates
enable T+0 or T+1 settlement cycles and provide real-time performance monitoring
through the fund metrics dashboard, where NAV history charts track performance
against benchmarks. Weekly or monthly valuations reduce administrative overhead
but extend settlement cycles and limit the responsiveness of the
subscription/redemption queue processing.

**NAV oracle**

Three oracle integration patterns are supported, each with different trust and
automation trade-offs. **Manual NAV updates** give your fund administrator full
control, requiring them to post NAV values through the governance dashboard
after calculating from portfolio holdings—this approach is tracked in the
observability dashboard's "NAV posting latency" metric, which alerts if updates
are delayed beyond your configured frequency. **Oracle integration** automates
NAV posting from external data providers, using on-chain price feeds to
calculate NAV from underlying portfolio positions—the dashboard monitors oracle
health metrics including data freshness and deviation from expected ranges.

The **hybrid** approach combines automated oracle feeds with administrator
override capability, enabling you to accept oracle values during normal
operations while retaining control during market disruptions or when portfolio
holdings change. The observability dashboard tracks the override frequency
metric to identify patterns where manual intervention becomes frequent,
signaling potential oracle configuration issues.

![NAV configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: NAV
settings showing initial NAV input, currency selector, valuation frequency
dropdown, and oracle integration options_

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Traditional fund administration requires manual NAV calculation across
  multiple spreadsheets, reconciliation with custodian records, and distribution
  to multiple systems. This process typically takes 1-3 business days and costs
  $5,000-50,000 monthly depending on fund complexity. ATK's automated NAV
  posting enables same-day subscription/redemption processing and reduces
  administrative overhead by 70-85%. The observability dashboard provides
  real-time NAV calculation transparency that auditors and regulators can verify
  independently, eliminating reconciliation disputes.
</Callout>

</Step>

<Step>

### 3. Configure subscription and redemption

Fund units require specialized issuance and withdrawal workflows that integrate
with the DALP vault system for custody and settlement. These parameters directly
affect your fund's liquidity management and the investor experience.

#### Subscription settings

**Subscription process**

The subscription workflow governs how capital flows into your fund and mints new
units. Your **minimum initial investment** and **minimum subsequent investment**
thresholds are enforced automatically by the smart contract, rejecting
transactions below these amounts before they consume gas or require manual
review. Setting an initial minimum of $10,000 and subsequent minimum of $1,000
is common for retail funds, while institutional share classes often require $1
million or more.

The **subscription settlement** cycle determines when investor capital moves
from their wallet to the DALP vault and when fund units are minted to their
address. T+0 settlement executes immediately upon NAV posting, ideal for liquid
funds with daily valuations. T+1 or T+2 cycles provide time for compliance
verification and payment confirmation, automatically queuing subscription
requests until the settlement date. Your **cut-off time** (configured in your
fund's timezone) establishes the daily deadline for same-day NAV
pricing—requests received after the cut-off automatically roll to the next
valuation date, eliminating manual NAV assignment and the pricing errors that
plague traditional fund administration.

**Payment methods**

The DALP vault system requires configuration of accepted payment tokens for
capital contributions. Adding stablecoin addresses (USDC, USDT, DAI) enables
investors to subscribe using their preferred on-chain currency, with the vault
automatically aggregating deposits for portfolio deployment. Payment token
conversion rates to your NAV currency are maintained either manually or via
oracle feeds, ensuring accurate unit calculation regardless of payment token
choice.

Enabling multi-currency subscriptions provides investor flexibility but requires
careful vault management—the liquidity dashboard tracks payment token
composition and can alert when reserves become unbalanced. For example, if 80%
of subscriptions arrive in USDC but redemptions require 60% USDT, the vault must
rebalance to avoid settlement failures.

![Subscription configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Subscription settings showing minimum investment amounts, settlement cycle
selector, cut-off time picker, and payment token list_

#### Redemption settings

**Redemption process**

Your redemption terms balance investor liquidity needs against fund management
requirements. The **redemption notice period** gives your fund time to raise
cash from portfolio holdings without forced selling at unfavorable prices—a
5-day notice period means investors submit requests on Monday for processing the
following Monday, assuming no weekends or holidays intervene. The smart
contract's calendar integration tracks business days according to your
configured market calendar, automatically extending notice periods when holidays
occur.

**Redemption frequency** can be more restrictive than subscription frequency,
particularly for illiquid strategies. Setting daily redemptions provides maximum
liquidity but requires maintaining higher cash reserves in the DALP vault,
reducing yield on invested capital. Monthly or quarterly redemption windows are
enforced by the contract's time-lock mechanism, automatically rejecting requests
submitted outside the designated window and queuing valid requests for batch
processing.

An **early redemption fee** (entered in basis points) compensates remaining
investors for the liquidity costs imposed by early exits, particularly during
lock-up periods. The fee is automatically deducted from redemption proceeds and
either burned (increasing NAV for remaining holders) or transferred to the
management fee wallet. The **redemption settlement** cycle controls when capital
flows from the DALP vault back to exiting investors, with T+3 to T+7 being
common for funds with less liquid portfolios.

**Redemption restrictions**

Fine-grained withdrawal controls protect both the fund and remaining investors.
Your **minimum redemption** amount prevents tiny redemptions that create
administrative burden, while the **partial redemption minimum** ensures
investors maintaining positions keep economically meaningful stakes—requiring at
least $5,000 remain after partial redemptions prevents your investor base from
fragmenting into many small, uneconomic accounts.

**Gates** are your most powerful liquidity protection tool, automatically
limiting aggregate redemptions to a percentage of total fund AUM per period.
Setting a 25% quarterly gate means the contract will pro-rate all redemption
requests if they exceed 25% of the fund's value, preventing a run scenario. The
observability dashboard's "Redemption queue metrics" panel shows you pending
redemption volume as a percentage of AUM, with alerts triggering when
approaching gate thresholds.

A **lock-up period** enforces a mandatory holding period from initial
subscription before any redemption is permitted, common in hedge funds and
private funds. Setting a 90-day lock-up means the contract automatically rejects
redemption requests from any investor whose first subscription settled less than
90 days ago, requiring no manual enforcement.

![Redemption configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Redemption settings showing notice period, frequency, fees, settlement cycle,
and restriction inputs_

</Step>

<Step>

### 4. Set compliance rules

Your fund token's compliance layer enforces investor eligibility and transfer
restrictions directly in the smart contract, automating what traditionally
requires manual transfer agent review. These rules integrate with the OnchainID
system to verify claims before permitting transactions.

#### Regulatory framework selection

Selecting your regulatory framework loads pre-configured compliance module
templates that implement common regulatory patterns. Choosing **1940 Act**
configures rules for US registered investment companies, including maximum
shareholder count tracking and automated prospectus delivery flags. **Regulation
D** templates enforce accredited investor status verification and beneficial
ownership disclosure requirements for private funds.

**UCITS** and **AIFMD** frameworks implement European fund regulations with
built-in rules for maximum issuer concentration, eligible asset verification,
and distribution restrictions across EU member states. The **Custom** option
starts with an empty compliance ruleset for jurisdiction-specific requirements
not covered by standard frameworks.

Your framework selection establishes the baseline ruleset, but every module can
be customized post-deployment. This matters because regulatory requirements
evolve—when new rules emerge, you can activate additional compliance modules
without redeploying the entire fund contract. The compliance dashboard tracks
which modules are active and logs every transaction that triggered a compliance
check, providing an audit trail regulators can review.

![Compliance framework selection](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Regulatory framework cards showing 1940 Act, Reg D, UCITS, AIFMD,
and Custom options with investor eligibility summaries_

#### Configure compliance modules

**Investor eligibility**

OnchainID claim requirements define who can acquire fund units, enforced
automatically on every mint, transfer, and subscription. Requiring the
**accredited investor** claim ensures only investors meeting SEC income or net
worth thresholds can subscribe, with identity providers cryptographically
attesting to this status on-chain. **Qualified purchaser** status (required for
3(c)(7) funds) enforces higher wealth thresholds, automatically maintained by
the identity provider's periodic re-verification.

**Professional investor** status implements MiFID II classifications for
European funds, while **suitability assessment** completion flags verify that
investors passed a questionnaire confirming their understanding of fund risks
and investment objectives. **KYC/AML verification** level requirements can be
tiered—Level 1 for basic identification, Level 2 for enhanced due diligence on
high-risk investors.

The compliance dashboard's "Investor eligibility distribution" chart shows you
the breakdown of your investor base by claim types, useful for regulatory
reporting. The "Failed transaction log" captures subscription attempts from
ineligible addresses, helping you identify and educate investors who attempt to
invest before completing verification.

**Transfer restrictions**

Secondary market transfer rules govern whether fund units can move between
addresses outside the subscription/redemption process. **Transferability** can
be completely disabled for funds with no secondary market, ensuring all investor
changes occur through the controlled subscription/redemption queues. Enabling
transfers with **transfer approval** means every proposed transfer queues for
fund manager review, useful for private funds requiring right-of-first-refusal
enforcement.

**Lock-up enforcement** prevents any transfers (including redemptions) during an
investor's lock-up period, automatically calculated from their first
subscription date. **Maximum holders** caps total investor count, critical for
maintaining 3(c)(1) exemption status—when approaching the 99-investor limit, the
contract automatically rejects new subscriptions and only permits transfers
between existing holders.

These restrictions are monitored in real-time through the compliance metrics
dashboard, which shows current investor count, transfers pending approval, and
lock-up expiration schedule across your investor base.

![Compliance module configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg)
_Screenshot: Compliance modules showing Investor Eligibility, Transfer
Restrictions, and Lock-up Period panels with configuration options_

#### Geographic restrictions

The Country Allow List module implements jurisdiction-based access controls by
requiring investors' OnchainID to assert their country of residence or
citizenship. Enabling this module and selecting permitted countries ensures
automatic rejection of subscription requests from restricted jurisdictions,
implementing FATF sanctions compliance and UCITS distribution rules without
manual screening.

For EU funds under UCITS or AIFMD, the geographic restrictions integrate with
passporting rules—you can enable distribution to all EU member states with a
single configuration or limit to specific countries where you've notified
regulators. The compliance dashboard tracks your investor base's geographic
distribution, generating reports for regulatory filings that require
country-level breakdowns.

</Step>

<Step>

### 5. Assign operational roles

Operational permissions distribute control across your fund's management team
through a role-based access control system. Each role maps to specific contract
functions, and assigning these to appropriate wallets implements operational
segregation of duties.

**GOVERNANCE_ROLE**

This role controls your fund's compliance configuration and investor management
functions. Addresses with GOVERNANCE_ROLE can configure and modify compliance
modules, ensuring investor eligibility rules stay current with regulatory
changes. They approve or reject subscription requests from the queue, verify
investor eligibility manually when automated checks are inconclusive, and
configure redemption parameters including gate activation during market stress.

The NAV posting function is also governed by this role—only GOVERNANCE_ROLE
addresses can update NAV, preventing unauthorized price manipulation. This role
typically goes to your fund administrator or compliance officer wallet, and best
practice is using a multisig wallet requiring 2-of-3 or 3-of-5 approvals for
critical actions. The governance activity log in the observability dashboard
shows every parameter change, NAV update, and subscription approval with
timestamps and signing addresses for complete auditability.

**SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE**

Fund unit creation and destruction occurs exclusively through addresses holding
SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE. This role mints new units when processing approved
subscriptions, calculating the unit quantity based on investment amount divided
by current NAV. It burns units during redemption processing, removing units from
circulation and calculating payout amounts.

The supply management functions integrate deeply with the DALP vault—minting
units typically follows vault receipt of subscription capital, while burning
units precedes vault disbursement of redemption proceeds. The yield management
addon's automated fee collection also uses this role to mint fee units to the
management wallet at the configured intervals. This role typically goes to your
fund operations or treasury wallet, with the transaction log in the fund metrics
dashboard providing a complete audit trail of all issuance and redemption
events.

**CUSTODIAN_ROLE**

Account-level interventions fall under CUSTODIAN_ROLE authority, implementing
the fund's fiduciary responsibilities to protect investors and comply with
regulatory orders. This role can freeze individual investor accounts when
compromise is suspected or reported, preventing further transactions until the
issue is resolved. Forced transfers execute regulatory orders such as
court-ordered asset seizures, divorce settlements, or estate transfers that
override normal transfer restrictions.

The unit recovery function addresses lost key scenarios—when an investor loses
access to their wallet, CUSTODIAN_ROLE can transfer their units to a replacement
address after proper verification. This role typically belongs to your fund
custodian or transfer agent wallet, and the custodian activity dashboard logs
every intervention with supporting documentation references for regulatory
review.

**EMERGENCY_ROLE**

Market stress scenarios and security incidents require circuit-breaker
capabilities. EMERGENCY_ROLE can pause all contract functions including
subscriptions, redemptions, and transfers—useful when investigating suspicious
activity or implementing emergency gates during extreme market volatility. The
gate implementation function allows temporary reduction of redemption limits
below configured thresholds when protecting remaining investors from forced
liquidation of portfolio holdings.

Unpausing restores normal operations after incident resolution, and best
practice is requiring multisig approval from 3-of-5 or 4-of-7 signers to prevent
unilateral emergency actions. This role typically goes to your fund manager
wallet. The emergency actions log prominently displays pause/unpause events in
the fund overview dashboard, and regulatory reporting modules flag all emergency
interventions for disclosure in periodic filings.

![Role assignment interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Role assignment form showing four roles with address inputs, role descriptions,
and permission lists_

<Callout type="warning" title="Security recommendation">
  Use multisig wallets for GOVERNANCE_ROLE and EMERGENCY_ROLE to prevent
  unilateral critical actions. A 2-of-3 multisig requiring approval from fund
  administrator, compliance officer, and fund manager provides checks and
  balances while maintaining operational efficiency. Hardware wallet signers add
  an additional security layer for high-value funds.
</Callout>

</Step>

<Step>

### 6. Review and deploy

**Pre-deployment checklist**

Before executing deployment, verify every configuration parameter against your
fund's offering documents and regulatory filings. Confirm your **token name and
symbol** match the prospectus exactly, as these become immutable once deployed
and appear in investor wallets and regulatory filings. Verify the **fund type
and share class** align with your intended structure, since deploying as
open-end when you meant closed-end requires a complete redeployment.

Double-check that **management fee percentage** entered in basis points matches
your offering documents—entering 150 basis points when you meant 1.5% annual
(which is 150 basis points) is correct, but entering 1.5 would result in a
0.015% fee. Confirm your **initial NAV** is set correctly, as subscription
pricing begins from this value. Review **subscription minimums** against
prospectus terms to ensure on-chain enforcement matches disclosed investor
requirements.

Verify **redemption terms** including notice periods, frequencies, and lock-ups
align with fund documents, since investors will expect these terms to match
their subscription agreements. Confirm your **compliance framework** matches
your regulatory filing—deploying with Regulation D modules when you filed under
the 1940 Act creates immediate compliance gaps. Finally, ensure **all
operational roles** are assigned to secure wallets with correct addresses, as
role reassignment post-deployment requires governance action and can't rescue
funds from mistyped addresses.

The deployment summary screen organizes all parameters into sections matching
your prospectus structure, making this final review efficient. The observability
dashboard will track deployment success metrics including contract
initialization time and initial configuration accuracy.

![Deployment summary review](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Pre-deployment summary showing fund parameters, fees, NAV settings,
subscription/redemption terms, compliance, and roles in organized sections_

#### Deploy fund contract

Executing deployment initiates a sequence of blockchain transactions that
establish your fund token and configure all subsystems. Click **Deploy Fund
Token** to begin the process, then review the transaction details showing
estimated gas costs and the deployment wallet that will sign the transactions.
Enter your PIN or OTP to authenticate your identity, ensuring only authorized
personnel can deploy fund contracts.

The deployment process follows a deterministic sequence displayed in real-time
on the progress modal. First, the fund proxy contract deploys, taking 15-20
seconds depending on network congestion—this creates your unique fund contract
address that remains permanent. Next, initialization occurs over approximately
10 seconds, writing your configured parameters into contract storage. NAV
tracking configuration takes another 5 seconds, establishing oracle connections
or manual update permissions.

Role assignment processes each role sequentially, spending about 5 seconds per
role to write permission grants into the access control registry. Finally,
identity registry registration completes in 10 seconds, linking your fund token
to the OnchainID compliance system. Total deployment time typically ranges from
60-90 seconds, after which your fund contract is live and ready for NAV posting
and subscription activation.

The deployment completes with a confirmation showing your fund token's contract
address. This address appears in the fund registry dashboard, the blockchain
explorer, and should be recorded in your operational procedures for reference.
All deployment transactions are logged in the contract deployment history with
complete gas costs and transaction hashes for accounting and audit purposes.

![Deployment progress](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Deployment progress modal showing step-by-step deployment status with checkmarks
and timestamps_

</Step>

<Step>

### 7. Post-issuance actions

Deployment creates your fund contract infrastructure, but several configuration
steps must complete before accepting investor subscriptions. These post-issuance
actions integrate your fund with the DALP lifecycle features and observability
systems.

#### Verify deployment

Begin by recording your fund contract's address from the deployment confirmation
screen—this identifier is permanent and appears in all investor-facing
materials, blockchain explorers, and regulatory filings. Click **View Fund
Token** to navigate to your fund's detail page, where the system displays key
metrics including current NAV, total AUM (initially zero), investor count, and
fee schedule.

Systematically verify each configuration section. Check that **token
information** shows correct name, symbol, decimals, and total supply (should be
zero if you configured initial supply as zero). Confirm the **management fee
rate** displays your intended annual percentage, not the basis points you
entered. Verify **NAV tracking** shows enabled status with your configured
valuation frequency and oracle integration (if applicable).

Review the **roles** section to ensure all four operational roles show the
correct wallet addresses—incorrect addresses here require governance action to
fix and delay your fund launch. The verification dashboard provides automated
checks highlighting any configuration discrepancies or common deployment
mistakes, with one-click fixes for correctable issues.

![Fund details overview](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Fund
token details page showing key metrics, NAV information, fee schedule, AUM, and
investor count_

#### Set initial NAV

NAV posting enables pricing for subscriptions and redemptions, making it
essential to complete before opening for investments. Navigate to the **NAV**
tab and click **Update NAV** to access the NAV posting interface. Enter your NAV
per unit—this should match the **initial NAV** you configured during deployment
for consistency, typically 100.00 or 1,000.00 for a newly launched fund.

Set the **effective date and time** to your fund's official launch date and
time, which establishes when this NAV becomes valid for pricing subscriptions.
For example, setting effective time to 4:00 PM on launch day means subscription
requests received before 4:00 PM use this NAV for unit calculation. Confirm the
update to write the NAV on-chain, which triggers the NAV history chart to
display your first data point.

This initial NAV posting appears on your fund details page and activates the
subscription queue processing logic—without a current NAV, subscription requests
remain unpriceable and cannot be approved. The fund metrics dashboard begins
tracking NAV volatility, update frequency, and pricing consistency metrics from
this first posting forward.

#### Configure fee collection

Management fee automation through the yield management addon requires
configuration of your fee collection wallet and schedule. Navigate to the
**Fees** tab where the fee schedule displays your configured management fee
percentage and any performance fee terms. The accrued fees amount shows zero
immediately post-deployment but will begin accumulating daily based on your AUM.

Enter your **fee collection wallet address** where newly minted fee units will
be deposited—this is typically a separate wallet from operational roles for
accounting clarity. Set your **fee collection frequency** (monthly, quarterly,
or annually) based on your fund's financial reporting cycle. Monthly collection
creates more frequent small minting events, while annual collection results in
one large fee issuance per year but delays management company cash flow.

The **automated fee collection** toggle enables the yield management addon to
mint fee units automatically on your configured schedule without manual
intervention. When enabled, the system calculates accrued fees daily as (AUM ×
annual fee rate) / 365, then on collection dates, mints units equal to total
accrued fees divided by current NAV. The fee collection history in the
observability dashboard tracks every collection event with unit quantities, NAV
used for calculation, and USD-equivalent values for accounting integration.

Disabling automated collection requires manual fee collection execution through
this same dashboard, useful for funds wanting to batch fee collection with other
administrative actions or requiring additional approvals before fee realization.

#### Enable subscriptions

Opening your fund for investor capital requires explicitly enabling subscription
processing. Navigate to the **Settings** tab and locate the **Accept
Subscriptions** toggle currently showing disabled status. Before enabling,
perform final verification of your subscription parameters—confirm minimum
investment amounts, settlement cycle, cut-off time, and payment token addresses
are all correct as configured during deployment.

Review the **payment token addresses** section showing all stablecoins and other
tokens accepted for subscriptions. Verify each address matches the official
token contract on your blockchain—incorrect payment token addresses could lead
investors to send capital to the wrong contract where it becomes unrecoverable.
The payment token configuration integrates with the DALP vault system, which
must recognize these tokens to properly custody subscription proceeds.

Toggle **Accept Subscriptions** to enabled and save changes, which activates the
subscription queue and begins accepting investor requests. The fund overview
dashboard updates to show "Open for subscriptions" status, and investor-facing
interfaces display subscription forms for your fund. The subscription queue
metrics panel tracks request volume, approval rate, and time-to-settlement for
performance monitoring.

Your fund is now live and operational. Investors with proper OnchainID claims
can submit subscription requests that enter your queue for review and
processing. The observability system begins tracking all key operational metrics
including subscription flow, NAV update frequency, and compliance check pass
rates across the complete fund lifecycle.

</Step>

<Step>

### 8. Manage fund operations

Daily fund operations center on processing investor transactions, maintaining
accurate NAV, and collecting management fees. These workflows integrate with
DALP's vault custody, yield distribution, and observability systems to automate
traditional fund administration.

#### Process subscription requests

Subscription processing transforms investor capital into fund units through a
multi-step workflow that integrates compliance verification, payment
confirmation, and DALP vault custody. When investors submit subscription
requests via the dApp, they enter their desired investment amount, select a
payment token from your configured options (USDC, USDT, etc.), and transfer
payment to the fund's subscription wallet address provided on-screen. This
transfer triggers the request to appear in your **Subscriptions** queue awaiting
administrative review.

Navigate to **Subscriptions** &gt; **Pending** to view all unprocessed requests,
organized by submission time. Each request displays the investor's identity and
compliance status—green checkmarks confirm they hold all required OnchainID
claims (accredited investor, KYC verification, etc.), while yellow warnings
indicate pending verification or missing claims. The investment amount and
payment token show the capital committed, with real-time vault confirmation
showing whether payment has been received in the DALP vault.

The applicable NAV for pricing is automatically determined based on your cut-off
time configuration—requests received before cut-off use the same-day NAV if
available, while requests after cut-off automatically apply next-day NAV. This
eliminates the pricing errors that plague traditional fund administration where
manual NAV assignment creates disputes. The unit quantity calculation displays
as investment amount divided by applicable NAV per unit, showing exactly how
many fund units will be minted upon approval.

Click **Approve** to process the subscription, which triggers several automated
actions. The smart contract calculates the precise unit quantity accounting for
decimals, mints those units to the investor's address, records the subscription
in the fund ledger with full transaction details, and updates total AUM by
adding the investment amount. The investor immediately sees fund units appear in
their wallet, and the subscription event appears in the transaction history
dashboard with complete audit trail including NAV used, units minted, and gas
costs.

Clicking **Reject** returns the payment tokens from the DALP vault to the
investor's address (minus gas costs) and logs the rejection reason you provide.
Common rejection reasons include failed compliance checks (missing claims),
payment amount below minimum threshold, or maximum investor count reached. The
rejected subscription dashboard tracks rejection patterns to identify common
investor onboarding issues requiring documentation improvement.

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Traditional subscription processing requires the fund administrator to
  manually calculate unit quantities, coordinate with the transfer agent to
  update the registry, reconcile with the custodian's records, and send
  confirmation notices. This workflow typically takes 3-5 business days (T+3 or
  T+5 settlement). ATK automates the entire process with T+0 or T+1 settlement,
  reducing operational costs by 80-90% while eliminating the calculation errors
  and reconciliation breaks that occur in 15-20% of manual subscriptions. The
  observability dashboard's "Subscription processing efficiency" panel tracks
  approval time from request submission to unit minting, helping you identify
  bottlenecks in your workflow and maintain competitive settlement speeds.
</Callout>

![Subscription queue](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot:
Subscription requests table showing pending orders with investor, amount,
payment token, NAV, calculated units, and approve/reject buttons_

#### Update net asset value

NAV accuracy drives fair pricing for both incoming subscribers and exiting
redeemers, making regular updates essential to fund operations. The calculation
process determines your fund's per-unit value by summing all portfolio asset
values (stocks, bonds, derivatives, etc.), subtracting liabilities (fees owed,
operational expenses), and dividing by total outstanding units.

For **manual NAV posting**, navigate to **NAV** &gt; **Update NAV** and enter
your calculated NAV per unit in the value field. Set the **effective date/time**
to when this NAV becomes valid for pricing transactions—this is typically your
fund's official valuation time such as 4:00 PM ET for US funds or 5:00 PM London
time for European funds. The **calculation source/notes** field captures your
methodology and data sources, creating an audit trail regulators can review if
NAV calculations are questioned.

The NAV validation engine performs sanity checks before accepting updates,
preventing data entry errors that could mispriced subscriptions or redemptions.
If your new NAV deviates more than your configured threshold (commonly 10%) from
the previous NAV, the system displays a confirmation prompt showing the
percentage change and requiring explicit approval. This catches typos where
105.50 was entered as 15.50 or decimal point errors.

Successful NAV posting updates the NAV history chart showing performance over
time, triggers repricing of pending subscription and redemption requests in your
queues, and logs the event in the NAV update dashboard with posting latency
metrics. The observability system tracks time from valuation effective time to
actual posting, alerting when delays exceed your configured threshold—for
example, if your 4:00 PM NAV isn't posted until 6:00 PM, investors may perceive
operational issues.

<Callout type="default" title="For developers">
  See [Contract
  Reference](/docs/developer-guides/smart-contracts/contract-reference) for
  technical details on NAV oracle integration, validation threshold
  configuration, and the event emission sequence that triggers observability
  metric updates. The oracle integration pattern section explains how to
  implement custom data providers for specialized asset classes requiring
  non-standard pricing sources.
</Callout>

For funds with **oracle integration**, NAV automation reduces posting to
monitoring mode. Configure your oracle data feed by connecting to price
providers for your portfolio's underlying assets—the system automatically
fetches prices for each holding, applies your fund's position quantities, and
calculates total portfolio value. Set your **update frequency** to match your
valuation schedule (daily at 4:00 PM, weekly on Fridays, etc.), and enable
**automated posting** to allow the system to write NAV on-chain without manual
intervention.

Monitor oracle health through the **NAV** tab's oracle status panel, which
displays data source connectivity, price feed freshness (time since last
update), and deviation from expected price ranges. Alerts trigger when oracle
feeds become stale (no update in 24+ hours), show extreme volatility (price
changes exceeding thresholds), or lose connectivity entirely. The oracle
override function allows manual NAV posting when automated systems fail,
ensuring your fund can continue operations during provider outages.

![NAV update interface](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: NAV
update form showing NAV per unit input, effective date/time, calculation notes,
and historical NAV chart_

#### Process redemption requests

Redemption processing converts fund units back to capital while enforcing notice
periods, gates, and liquidity management through DALP vault integration. When
investors submit redemption requests via the dApp, they specify the unit
quantity they want to redeem, select their desired payout token (USDC, USDT,
etc.), and acknowledge the redemption notice period requirement. The request
enters the **Redemptions** &gt; **Pending Notice** queue showing the notice
period countdown.

After the configured notice period expires (5 days, 10 days, etc., as you
configured), requests automatically move to **Ready for Processing** status.
Navigate to **Redemptions** &gt; **Ready** to view requests eligible for
execution. Each request displays the investor address, unit quantity to be
redeemed, the applicable NAV (typically the NAV effective on the settlement
date), calculated redemption proceeds (units × NAV per unit), and requested
payout token.

Before processing, verify the DALP vault's liquidity wallet contains sufficient
payout tokens to settle the redemption. The liquidity dashboard shows available
balances for each token type, total redemption amount required for all pending
requests, and the vault's overall liquidity ratio. If the vault is short on the
requested payout token but holds alternatives, the vault rebalancing function
can swap between stablecoins to meet redemption needs without rejecting investor
requests.

Click **Process Redemption** to execute settlement, which triggers an automated
sequence. The smart contract calculates exact redemption proceeds accounting for
any redemption fees or pro-rating due to gates, burns the redeemed units from
the investor's address (permanently removing them from circulation), transfers
payout tokens from the DALP liquidity vault to the investor's wallet, records
the redemption event in the fund ledger with complete transaction details, and
updates total AUM by subtracting the redemption proceeds.

The investor sees payout tokens arrive in their wallet within one block
confirmation, and the transaction appears in the redemption history dashboard
showing NAV used for pricing, units burned, proceeds paid, and gas costs. For
redemptions that trigger gates or pro-rating, the dashboard shows the pro-rata
percentage applied and queued amount carried forward to the next redemption
window.

<Callout type="info" title="Business context">
  Traditional redemption processing requires the fund administrator to manually
  calculate proceeds, coordinate with the custodian to release cash, update unit
  holder records with the transfer agent, and reconcile all three systems. This
  process typically takes 3-7 business days and introduces reconciliation errors
  in 10-15% of cases due to timing mismatches or calculation differences. ATK's
  integrated approach automates the entire workflow with T+1 or T+2 settlement
  and achieves zero calculation errors through deterministic smart contract
  math. The redemption metrics dashboard tracks processing time from notice
  period expiration to capital disbursement, showing your operational efficiency
  relative to disclosed settlement terms. Auditors review this dashboard to
  verify compliance with fund documents.
</Callout>

![Redemption queue](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Screenshot: Redemption
requests showing notice period countdown, ready requests with investor, units,
NAV, proceeds, and process button_

#### Collect management fees

Management fee collection leverages the yield management addon to automate fee
accrual and periodic realization through unit creation. The system calculates
accrued fees daily using the formula (current AUM × annual fee rate) / 365,
tracking the accumulated amount in the fee accrual balance. For a fund with $10
million AUM and 1.5% annual fee (150 basis points), daily accrual is
approximately $410, which compounds over the collection period.

With **automated fee collection** enabled, the yield management addon executes
collection on your configured schedule without manual intervention. On
collection dates (monthly, quarterly, or annually as configured), the system
calculates total accrued fees since the last collection, determines the current
NAV per unit, and mints new units equal to accrued fees divided by NAV. These
newly minted units transfer to your configured fee wallet address, diluting
existing investors proportionally—this is the standard approach in fund
accounting where management fees reduce NAV rather than requiring cash payments.

For example, if $5,000 in fees accrued over a month and current NAV is $102.50
per unit, the system mints 48.78 units to your fee wallet. The fee collection
event appears in the fund history dashboard showing accrual amount, NAV used for
unit calculation, units minted, and percentage dilution to existing investors.
The observability system tracks fee collection frequency and calculates
effective fee rate by comparing total fees collected to average AUM over the
period, alerting if the effective rate deviates from your configured
rate—deviations suggest NAV posting issues or calculation errors.

For **manual fee collection**, navigate to the **Fees** tab where the accrued
fees amount displays the balance accumulated since last collection. Review the
calculation details showing daily accrual amounts and total fees owed, then
click **Collect Fees** to initiate the process. Confirm the fee calculation
showing units that will be minted and expected dilution percentage, then execute
the collection transaction.

**Performance fee calculation** for funds with incentive fee structures involves
high-water mark tracking. The system maintains the highest NAV previously
achieved by the fund, and performance fees only accrue when current NAV exceeds
this benchmark. On performance fee collection dates (typically annually),
calculate the gain above high-water mark, multiply by your performance fee rate
(commonly 20%), and determine total performance fee amount. Mint units equal to
this amount divided by current NAV to your manager fee wallet, then update the
high-water mark to the current NAV for the next calculation period.

The performance fee dashboard tracks high-water mark history, performance above
benchmark, and performance fees collected over time, providing transparency for
investor reporting and regulatory filings that require performance fee
disclosure.

#### Manage fund liquidity

Liquidity management ensures your fund can meet redemption obligations without
forced selling of portfolio holdings at unfavorable prices. Navigate to the
**Liquidity** tab to access comprehensive liquidity monitoring powered by the
DALP vault system and observability dashboards.

The liquidity overview displays total redemption requests pending across all
queues—those in notice period, ready for processing, and queued due to gates.
**Required liquidity for upcoming redemptions** shows the capital needed to
settle all maturing redemption requests in the next 7 days, 30 days, and 90
days, helping you plan vault rebalancing. **Current cash/stablecoin reserves**
displays the DALP vault's liquid assets broken down by token type (USDC, USDT,
DAI, etc.), showing immediately available settlement capacity.

**Portfolio liquidity composition** analyzes your fund's invested assets by
liquidity tier—tier 1 for daily liquid assets (major exchange-traded stocks,
government bonds), tier 2 for weekly liquid assets (corporate bonds, small-cap
stocks), and tier 3 for monthly or longer liquid assets (private placements,
real estate). This composition drives your redemption reserve target—funds with
80% tier 1 assets can safely operate with 5-10% cash reserves, while funds with
50% tier 3 assets may need 20-30% reserves to avoid forced selling.

The liquidity dashboard provides scenario analysis showing redemption capacity
under stress scenarios—what happens if 10%, 20%, or 30% of AUM requests
redemption simultaneously. These scenarios account for your configured gates,
available vault liquidity, and estimated proceeds from liquidating tier 1 and
tier 2 assets. Alerts trigger when projected liquidity coverage falls below your
configured threshold, prompting rebalancing actions before redemption requests
become unpayable.

Best practice maintains a liquidity buffer of 10-20% of AUM for open-end funds
with daily redemptions, higher for funds with illiquid portfolios or
concentrated investor bases where large redemptions are more likely. The vault
rebalancing tool allows you to transfer capital from portfolio management
wallets back to the liquidity vault, or to swap between stablecoins to match
redemption payout token preferences.

</Step>

</Steps>

## Results

After completing these steps, you will have:

- A deployed fund token contract with your specified fund type and share class
- Configured NAV tracking with manual or oracle-based updates integrated with
  observability dashboards
- Established subscription and redemption workflows with automated cut-off time
  enforcement and DALP vault custody
- Configured compliance rules matching your regulatory framework with real-time
  enforcement metrics
- Assigned operational roles to designated wallet addresses with complete audit
  logging
- Posted initial NAV and enabled investor subscriptions with queue processing
  active
- Configured yield management addon for automated fee collection with dashboard
  monitoring

Your fund token is now live and operational, accepting investor subscriptions
through the compliance-verified workflow. Process subscription and redemption
requests through your admin dashboard with automated NAV-based pricing, update
NAV regularly through manual posting or oracle integration, and collect
management fees automatically through the yield management system. The
observability dashboards provide real-time metrics on all operational aspects
including subscription flow, redemption queues, NAV update frequency, fee
collection accuracy, and vault liquidity levels.

## Troubleshooting

**Deployment fails with "Invalid management fee":**

Management fees must be entered in basis points (not percentage) and fall within
the contract's allowed range, typically 0-500 basis points. Verify you entered
150 for a 1.5% fee, not 1.5, and check that your desired fee rate doesn't exceed
the maximum configured in the fund factory contract. The deployment validation
log shows the exact limit configured for your installation.

**Subscription processing reverts:**

Subscription failures typically stem from compliance verification issues,
payment configuration problems, or NAV availability. Verify the investor's
OnchainID contains all required claims shown in your eligibility module
configuration—missing claims prevent minting even if payment is received. Check
that the payment token address is correctly configured in your accepted payment
tokens list and matches the official token contract on your blockchain. Ensure a
current NAV exists with effective time covering the subscription settlement
date—gaps in NAV history prevent pricing. Confirm you haven't reached the
maximum holder count configured in your compliance modules, which auto-rejects
new investors when the cap is hit.

**NAV update fails:**

NAV posting can fail due to validation threshold exceedances, permission issues,
or timing conflicts. If your new NAV deviates more than the configured threshold
percentage from the previous NAV, you must explicitly acknowledge the large
change through the confirmation dialog—this prevents typos but requires
intentional approval for legitimate volatility. Verify your address holds
GOVERNANCE_ROLE permission, which is required for NAV posting. Ensure the NAV
timestamp you're setting is after the previous NAV's effective time, as the
contract rejects backdated NAV updates. Confirm the NAV value is positive and
reasonable (the contract rejects zero or negative NAVs as obviously erroneous).

The NAV validation log in the governance dashboard shows detailed rejection
reasons with suggested corrections for common errors.

**Redemption processing reverts:**

Redemption execution failures usually involve timing issues, vault liquidity
shortfalls, or gate enforcement. Check that the notice period has fully
elapsed—the contract calculates notice period in business days according to your
market calendar configuration, so weekends and holidays extend the wait. Verify
your DALP liquidity vault contains sufficient payout tokens of the requested
type to settle the redemption—the liquidity dashboard shows current balances and
required amounts. Ensure the redemption amount doesn't exceed your configured
gate limits when combined with other pending redemptions in the same period.
Confirm the investor actually holds sufficient units to redeem the requested
quantity, accounting for any units locked in other pending redemptions.

The redemption processing log captures detailed failure reasons and suggested
resolutions for each reverted transaction.

**Fee collection fails:**

Fee collection requires non-zero accrued fees, current NAV, and proper
configuration. Verify fee collection is enabled in your settings—newly deployed
funds have collection disabled by default until you explicitly activate it.
Check that the accrued fee amount is non-zero, which requires both time passage
since last collection and positive AUM. Ensure sufficient time has elapsed since
last collection based on your configured frequency—attempting monthly collection
15 days after the last one will be rejected. Confirm a current NAV exists for
unit calculation, as fee collection mints units equal to accrued fees divided by
NAV.

The fee accrual dashboard shows daily accrual amounts and next scheduled
collection date for automated mode, or accumulated balance ready for collection
in manual mode.

For additional help, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) or
contact support with your fund contract address and specific error messages from
the transaction logs.

## Next steps

- [Corporate actions](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/corporate-actions) -
  Execute dividend distributions and other fund lifecycle events using yield
  management addon
- [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) - Onboard
  new fund investors and verify OnchainID claims required by compliance modules
- [Admin settings](/docs/user-guides/operations/admin-settings) - Manage
  compliance modules and operational roles with complete change logging
- [Identity and compliance](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/identity-compliance) -
  Understand the compliance module architecture and claim verification system
- [DALP vaults](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/addon-modules) - Learn how
  vault custody secures fund assets and enables automated settlement
- [Yield management](/docs/architecture/smart-contracts/addon-modules) - Deep
  dive into automated fee collection and distribution mechanisms
- [Observability dashboards](/docs/developer-guides/deployment-ops/observability-monitoring) -
  Explore fund metrics, compliance tracking, and operational monitoring
