---
title: Fiat bridge guide
description:
  Configure and operate the fiat-token bridge to enable conversion between
  traditional fiat currency and on-chain tokens. Handle investor deposits, token
  minting, redemption requests, and fiat payouts through integrated banking
  rails.
pageTitle: How to use the fiat-token bridge
tags: [how-to, fiat-bridge, stablecoin, redemption, banking]
---

**Primary audience:** Treasury operations staff, payment processors  
**Secondary audience:** Banking integration teams, compliance officers

## The fiat-crypto bridge challenge

Bridging traditional finance with blockchain introduces a fundamental settlement
timing mismatch. Bank wires take 1-3 business days (T+1 to T+3) while blockchain
transfers settle in seconds. This creates liquidity risk, operational
complexity, and reconciliation headaches.

ATK's fiat bridge solves this by combining DALP vault custody with real-time
observability. Treasury operators can monitor deposits in flight, track
redemption liabilities, and maintain reserve ratios—all from integrated
dashboards that show both on-chain and off-chain positions simultaneously.

The challenge isn't just moving money between systems. It's maintaining accurate
accounting when one side operates 24/7 (blockchain) while the other works
banker's hours (wire transfers). Without proper tooling, teams resort to
spreadsheets and manual reconciliation that break down at scale.

## Before you start

**Prerequisites:**

- Platform stablecoin deployed (see
  [Issue a stablecoin](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-stablecoin))
- Banking relationship with wire transfer capabilities
- KYC procedures integrated with OnchainID registry
- Access to observability dashboards

**Time estimate:** Initial setup 2-3 hours; ongoing operations are
transaction-by-transaction

**Required knowledge:**

- Treasury operations and wire transfer processing
- AML/KYC compliance procedures
- Basic blockchain wallet operations

## Choose your on-ramp provider

Your first decision: integrate directly with banks via wire transfers, use a
specialized on-ramp provider, or support both paths. Each approach has distinct
tradeoffs for speed, cost, and regulatory complexity.

### Direct bank integration

Use this when you have existing banking relationships and a treasury operations
team familiar with wire processing. This approach is common for issuers handling
institutional investors or regulated financial products. You avoid third-party
fees (saving 25-50 bps per transaction), maintain full control over settlement
timing, and operate under the simplest regulatory structure with no additional
money transmitter licenses. It works for any transaction size. The tradeoff is
manual reconciliation unless you integrate a banking API, slower T+1 to T+3
settlement for wires, business-hours-only processing, and higher operational
overhead for your treasury team.

**Check the bridge status panel** in observability dashboards to monitor the
pending wire verification queue and track average processing times across your
operations cycle.

### Third-party on-ramp providers (Wyre, Circle, Stripe)

Choose providers when you need instant deposits, want to support retail
investors with smaller transaction sizes, or lack in-house treasury operations.
Providers offer instant settlement measured in seconds instead of days,
automated reconciliation via API, support for credit cards and ACH, 24/7
operation including weekends, and handle AML screening for you. The cost is
50-100 bps per transaction, potential KYC duplication with your OnchainID
verification, transaction size limits often capped at $10,000-$50,000,
additional counterparty risk, and regulatory dependency on the provider
maintaining their licenses.

To integrate, register with your chosen provider (Wyre, Circle, or Stripe
Crypto), then configure webhook endpoints to receive deposit notifications. Link
the provider's user ID with each investor's OnchainID address so the system can
match deposits to accounts. Mint tokens automatically when webhooks confirm
deposits, and monitor provider status via the observability dashboard
integration you configure during setup.

**Check the payment provider dashboard** to track provider API health, webhook
delivery rates, and accumulated fees over time.

### Hybrid approach (recommended for institutional issuers)

Support both wires for institutional investors and large transactions over
$50,000 alongside on-ramp providers for retail investors and smaller amounts
under $50,000. This balances cost efficiency for large amounts with user
experience for retail participants.

## Configure bridge settings

### Banking configuration

Navigate to **Platform Settings** &gt; **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Banking** to
establish the receiving endpoint for investor wires. Treasury teams need
complete account details to generate wire instructions investors will use. Enter
your bank name, account holder legal entity name (which must match the issuer
entity on securities), account number for wire deposits, SWIFT/BIC code for
international identification, routing number for domestic transfers, and IBAN
for European accounts. Multi-currency support requires separate accounts per
currency to avoid forex conversion ambiguity—add each currency by clicking **Add
Currency Account**, selecting the currency (USD, EUR, GBP), entering
currency-specific bank details, setting transaction limits, and configuring your
exchange rate source (manual or API).

![Banking configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Banking
configuration showing bank account details for multiple currencies with account
numbers and SWIFT codes_

**CRITICAL: Use segregated accounts.** Never commingle fiat bridge deposits with
operational funds. Segregated accounts simplify reconciliation and demonstrate
reserve backing to auditors.

**Check the bank balance panel** in observability dashboards to compare actual
bank balance against expected balance calculated from token supply and pending
transactions.

### Stablecoin configuration

Navigate to **Platform Settings** &gt; **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Stablecoins** to
establish which tokens represent fiat deposits. You can bridge your platform
stablecoin for full control and no third-party risk, or external stablecoins
like USDC for wider acceptance and network effects. Click **Add Stablecoin**,
enter the token contract address, verify that token details auto-populate (name,
symbol, decimals), then set conversion parameters. Configure the peg ratio
(typically 1:1 meaning 1 token equals 1 fiat unit), deposit fee in basis points
charged on fiat-to-token conversions (e.g., 0-50 bps), redemption fee in basis
points for token-to-fiat (e.g., 0-50 bps), minimum deposit amount (e.g., $100),
and minimum redemption threshold. Click **Enable Stablecoin** when complete.

Common fee structures use 0% deposit fees to encourage onboarding and 10-25 bps
redemption fees to cover wire costs and maintain spread. The redemption fee
should cover your banking wire fees plus a small margin. For example, if your
bank charges $25 per outbound wire, a 25 bps fee on a $10,000 redemption
generates $25 to cover the cost. For smaller redemptions, consider a minimum fee
structure ($25 minimum or 25 bps, whichever is greater).

![Stablecoin configuration](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Stablecoin
configuration showing enabled stablecoins with contract addresses, peg ratios,
fees, and minimum amounts_

**Check the stablecoin metrics panel** to monitor total supply by stablecoin,
mint/burn rates, and fee accumulation trends over time.

### Operational parameters

Navigate to **Platform Settings** &gt; **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Operations** to
define your SLAs to investors. Be realistic—promising T+0 settlement when your
treasury team operates 9-5 creates expectation mismatches. Align cut-off times
with your banking hours and internal processing capacity to maintain credibility
and operational discipline.

Configure settlement timing by setting deposit settlement policy (T+0, T+1, or
T+2 for token minting after fiat receipt verification) and redemption settlement
(T+1, T+2, or T+3 for fiat payout after token burn). Set the daily cut-off time
as the deadline for same-day processing (e.g., 3:00 PM local time). For example,
an institutional issuer might configure T+1 deposit settlement with a 3:00 PM
cut-off (wires received by 3 PM are verified and minted the next business day)
alongside T+2 redemption settlement (redemption requests approved today result
in wires sent two business days later). This gives treasury time to verify
deposits and arrange funding for redemption wires.

Set transaction limits including daily deposit limit (maximum total deposits per
day), daily redemption limit (maximum total redemptions per day constrained by
liquidity), per-transaction maximum (largest single deposit or redemption), and
velocity limits (maximum per address per time period for AML control). Base
limits on liquidity capacity—your daily redemption limit should not exceed your
available bank balance plus same-day liquidity sources like credit lines or
on-demand liquidity pools.

Configure operational hours by defining business days (Monday-Friday excluding
holidays), business hours for manual processing (9:00 AM - 5:00 PM), and your
holiday calendar (US Federal, UK, EU holidays). When operations are closed,
deposits queue for next business day processing—communicate this clearly to
investors to avoid support inquiries.

![Operational parameters](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Operational
parameters showing settlement times, transaction limits, business hours, and
holiday calendar_

**Check the bridge operations dashboard** to monitor current queue depths,
average processing times, and SLA compliance rates across all active operations.

## Process fiat deposits

The fiat-to-token flow converts investor wire transfers into on-chain token
balances. Each deposit moves through verification (confirm receipt and investor
identity) then minting (issue tokens to investor address).

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    Wire(Investor initiates<br/>wire transfer) --> BankReceive(Bank receives<br/>wire transfer)
    BankReceive --> TreasuryVerify(Treasury verifies<br/>deposit receipt)
    TreasuryVerify --> IdentityCheck{OnchainID<br/>verified?}
    IdentityCheck -->|No| Reject(Reject deposit<br/>& refund)
    IdentityCheck -->|Yes| ComplianceCheck{Compliance<br/>checks pass?}
    ComplianceCheck -->|No| Reject
    ComplianceCheck -->|Yes| CalculateMint(Calculate token<br/>mint amount)
    CalculateMint --> MintTokens(Mint tokens to<br/>investor address)
    MintTokens --> NotifyInvestor(Notify investor<br/>of completion)
    
    style Wire fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BankReceive fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style TreasuryVerify fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style MintTokens fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Reject fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`}
/>

### Receive wire transfer

Investors initiate wire transfers to your configured bank account, with each
wire including reference information linking it to the investor's platform
account or OnchainID address. Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Deposit
Instructions** and click **Generate Deposit Instructions**. The platform creates
a unique deposit reference code for the investor and generates complete wire
instructions including bank account details, the unique deposit reference code,
and the required memo/reference field format. Share these instructions with the
investor via email or your investor portal.

The reference code is critical—without it, treasury must manually match wires to
investors using name and amount, which is error-prone and slow. Investors
receive instructions showing the bank name, account holder, account number,
routing and SWIFT codes, along with the reference code to include in the wire
memo field. The reference code links automatically to the investor's OnchainID
during verification.

### Verify deposit receipt

Treasury confirms fiat arrived in the bank account and links it to the correct
investor. If you have banking API integration, the platform polls your bank
account for incoming wires every 15 minutes, and new deposits appear in **Fiat
Bridge** &gt; **Pending Deposits** where the platform matches deposits to
investors via reference code, verifies amount and sender automatically, then
moves deposits to the mint queue.

**Check the deposit verification panel** in observability dashboards to see
incoming wires awaiting verification and monitor average time from wire receipt
to verification completion.

For manual verification without banking API, check your business bank account
for incoming wires via the bank portal, then navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt;
**Pending Deposits** and click **Record Deposit**. Enter the deposit amount and
currency, wire reference number from your bank statement, wire date, and
investor address (lookup by reference code or email), then click **Verify
Deposit**. The platform links the deposit to the investor account, calculates
the token mint amount as (deposit minus fees) divided by peg ratio, and marks
the deposit as verified and ready for minting.

![Deposit verification](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Deposit
verification showing pending wire transfers with amount, currency, reference,
investor lookup, and verify button_

Before processing each day's deposits, reconcile bank account balance against
platform recorded deposits. Discrepancies indicate missed wires or data entry
errors that need investigation.

**Check the reconciliation dashboard** to compare expected bank balance (from
platform records) against actual balance (from banking API or manual entry) to
catch issues early.

### Mint tokens

After verification, issue tokens to investor addresses—this is where fiat
becomes blockchain-native value. Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Verified
Deposits** to review deposits ready for minting. Each verified deposit shows the
investor OnchainID address, fiat amount deposited, applicable fees (deposit fee
plus wire fees), net token mint amount calculated as (fiat amount minus fees)
divided by peg ratio, which stablecoin to mint, and the settlement date based on
verification time and your T+0/T+1 policy.

**CRITICAL: Verify investor compliance status.** The platform automatically
checks OnchainID verification status and compliance module eligibility before
allowing mint. If the investor lacks required claims or is on a blocklist, the
mint will fail with a clear error explaining the issue.

To mint a single deposit, click **Mint Tokens**—the platform executes the mint
transaction on-chain, records the transaction hash on the deposit record,
updates the investor token balance, sends notification to the investor via email
and in-app, then marks the deposit as complete. Treasury teams processing 10-100
daily deposits benefit from batch operations: select multiple deposits via
checkboxes, click **Batch Mint**, and the platform processes all in sequence
before showing batch results with successful mints and any failures with
reasons.

**Check the mint operations panel** in observability dashboards to monitor mint
transaction success rates, average gas costs, and mint volume by stablecoin over
time.

![Token minting](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Verified deposits showing
deposit details, calculated token amounts, and mint buttons with batch
processing option_

The minting step synchronizes with OnchainID claims—the platform validates that
the investor has a KYC claim with issuer signature, is not on any blocklist,
meets minimum investment requirements if configured, and that token transfer
restrictions allow minting to this address. If any check fails, the mint is
blocked and the deposit queues for manual review or refund.

**DALP vault integration:** Minted tokens represent claims on vault-held
reserves. Ensure vault custody arrangements match token supply to maintain 1:1
backing. **Check vault reserve ratio** in observability dashboards after large
mint operations to verify reserves remain above your target threshold (typically
100-110%).

## Process redemption requests

The token-to-fiat flow converts on-chain balances back to bank wire transfers.
Investors request redemption, treasury approves and burns tokens, then executes
wire transfers to complete the cycle.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
    Request(Investor submits<br/>redemption request) --> Review(Treasury reviews<br/>request details)
    Review --> BankingCheck{Banking details<br/>match KYC?}
    BankingCheck -->|No| Reject(Reject request)
    BankingCheck -->|Yes| ComplianceCheck{Compliance<br/>checks pass?}
    ComplianceCheck -->|No| Reject
    ComplianceCheck -->|Yes| LiquidityCheck{Sufficient<br/>liquidity?}
    LiquidityCheck -->|No| Queue(Queue for<br/>liquidity)
    LiquidityCheck -->|Yes| Approve(Approve redemption)
    Approve --> BurnTokens(Burn tokens from<br/>investor address)
    BurnTokens --> ExecuteWire(Execute wire<br/>transfer to investor)
    ExecuteWire --> NotifyComplete(Notify investor<br/>of completion)
    Queue --> Approve
    
    style Request fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Review fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style BurnTokens fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style ExecuteWire fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff
    style Reject fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`}
/>

### Receive redemption request

Investors initiate redemption via the dApp interface by navigating to
**Account** &gt; **Redeem Tokens**, entering the token amount to redeem,
selecting the fiat currency to receive (USD, EUR, GBP), and providing banking
details (beneficiary name matching KYC records, bank account number or IBAN,
SWIFT/BIC code, bank name and address). After reviewing redemption fees and net
fiat amount, they click **Submit Redemption Request**. The platform creates the
redemption request and queues it for treasury approval with timestamp and
estimated settlement date based on your operational parameters.

**Check the redemption queue panel** in observability dashboards to monitor
pending redemptions by volume and value, average queue time, and requests
approaching SLA deadlines.

### Review redemption request

Treasury verifies investor identity, compliance status, and banking details
before approving redemption. Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Redemption
Requests** to review requests showing investor identity (OnchainID address, KYC
claim status, investor name from claims), token amount to burn (verify investor
holds sufficient balance), banking details (beneficiary name, account number,
SWIFT/BIC), redemption fees (basis points or minimum), net fiat payout (token
amount times peg ratio minus fees), and settlement date based on request time
and your T+1/T+2 policy.

**CRITICAL verification: Banking details must match KYC records.** This prevents
redemption to third-party accounts, a potential money laundering vector. If the
beneficiary name does not match the investor name from KYC claims, flag for
manual review. Verify that the KYC claim status is current (not expired),
investor is not on blocklists or sanctions lists, banking details match verified
KYC records, investor holds sufficient token balance (greater than or equal to
requested amount), and the redemption amount meets your minimum threshold.

**Check the compliance metrics panel** in observability dashboards to see
redemption rejection rates by reason and identify patterns requiring investor
education.

![Redemption review](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Redemption request
details showing investor info, token amount, banking details, fees, net payout,
and approve/reject buttons_

### Approve or reject redemption

To approve, click **Approve Redemption** and confirm—the platform executes the
burn transaction on-chain, removes tokens from the investor address, moves the
redemption to **Pending Payout** queue with the settlement date, and records
liability for the fiat payout. Burned tokens reduce liability against vault
reserves—monitor vault reserve ratio to ensure sufficient liquidity for pending
payouts.

If you find compliance or verification issues, click **Reject Redemption** and
select a rejection reason (banking details mismatch, KYC claim expired or
missing, insufficient token balance, suspicious activity flag, or sanctions list
match). Enter detailed notes for the audit trail and confirm rejection. The
platform cancels the redemption request, notifies the investor with the
rejection reason, leaves tokens in the investor wallet, and logs the rejection
in the audit trail.

Monitor rejection rate in observability dashboards—high rejection rates
exceeding 5% indicate investor education is needed on banking details
verification or KYC claim renewal processes.

**Check the redemption approval panel** to track approval throughput, average
review time per request, and pending approvals approaching SLA deadlines that
require attention.

### Execute fiat payout

Transfer fiat from your issuer bank account to investor bank accounts. Navigate
to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Pending Payouts** to see approved redemptions with
settlement dates reached. Before processing payouts, verify bank account balance
covers total payout amount plus wire fees—if insufficient, arrange funding by
transferring from reserves, drawing on credit lines, or liquidating collateral.

**Check the vault liquidity panel** in observability dashboards to see available
reserves, pending payout liabilities, and current reserve ratio. The system
alerts if the ratio drops below your configured threshold (typically 100-110%).

If you have payment processor API integration, select redemptions for payout
(filter by settlement date equals today), click **Execute Automated Payout**,
and the platform sends payout instructions to the processor API. The processor
initiates wire transfers, webhooks confirm wire execution, the platform marks
redemptions as paid, and observability metrics update automatically.

For manual payout via business banking portal, click **Export Payout Batch** to
generate a CSV with wire details, review the CSV contents (beneficiary, account,
amount per redemption), then process wire transfers via your business banking
portal (one by one or bulk upload if your bank supports it). After each wire
executes, navigate to the redemption record in the platform, click **Mark as
Paid**, enter the wire confirmation number from your bank and the payout date
when the wire executed, then confirm completion. The platform records the payout
and notifies the investor.

Many banks support bulk wire file upload in ISO 20022 format—export the batch as
XML, upload to the bank portal, and approve the batch. This reduces manual entry
from 100 clicks to 1 upload plus 1 approval step.

![Payout processing](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Pending payouts
showing redemptions grouped by currency with amounts, investor details, and
execute payout buttons_

Honor stated settlement periods (T+1, T+2) rigorously. Delayed redemptions
damage investor confidence and may violate contractual obligations. If delays
occur, proactively notify investors with updated timelines.

**Check the payout execution panel** to monitor wire execution rates, average
payout processing time, and SLA compliance percentage across all redemption
operations.

## Monitor bridge operations with observability

The bridge dashboard aggregates metrics across deposit verification, minting,
redemption approval, and payout execution. This unified view prevents
operational blind spots that arise when teams track metrics in separate systems.
Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Dashboard** to access the centralized
monitoring interface.

### Volume statistics

Track fiat-crypto flow patterns over time to understand demand trends. The
dashboard shows total deposits (24h, 7d, 30d aggregations) representing fiat
inflows, total redemptions (24h, 7d, 30d) representing fiat outflows, net flow
calculated as deposits minus redemptions (positive indicates growing AUM,
negative indicates redemptions exceeding deposits), and average transaction size
helping segment retail versus institutional activity. Sustained negative net
flow indicates redemption pressure—check vault liquidity and consider marketing
campaigns to attract new deposits.

**Check the bridge volume chart** to visualize deposit and redemption trends
over 30 days with overlaid liquidity reserve levels showing the relationship
between flows and available reserves.

### Processing metrics

Monitor operational efficiency through metrics showing pending deposits count
(awaiting verification), pending redemptions count (awaiting approval), average
processing time from request to completion, and failed transaction rate for
mints or burns that failed on-chain. Target deposit verification time under 4
hours for T+0 settlement or under 24 hours for T+1, redemption approval time
under 24 hours, and failed transaction rate under 0.1%—investigate any failures
immediately to identify root causes.

**Check the bridge processing metrics panel** to see queue depths and processing
time percentiles (p50, p95, p99) that reveal both typical performance and tail
latencies affecting user experience.

### Financial metrics

Track fees, liabilities, and reserve backing through metrics showing total fees
collected (accumulated from deposit and redemption fees), outstanding redemption
liability (sum of approved redemptions pending payout), bank account balance
versus token supply for reserve ratio validation, and vault reserve ratio (total
vault holdings divided by token supply with target of 100% or higher). Token
supply must never exceed vault reserves including bank balance plus custodied
assets—if the ratio drops below 100%, you have undercollateralization risk
requiring immediate attention.

Set alert thresholds at reserve ratio under 105% for warning status (schedule
reserve top-up), reserve ratio under 100% for critical status (halt redemptions
until funded), and outstanding redemption liability exceeding 50% of bank
balance for warning status (arrange liquidity).

**Check the vault reserve panel** in observability dashboards to see real-time
reserve ratio with historical chart and alert status providing early warning of
liquidity pressure.

![Bridge dashboard](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Fiat bridge dashboard
showing volume charts, processing queues, financial metrics, and trend graphs_

### Reconciliation workflow

Ensure fiat and token balances align daily to catch discrepancies before they
compound. Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Reconciliation** to review the
reconciliation report showing bank account balance (current fiat balance from
banking API or manual entry), total token supply (on-chain token supply minted
via bridge), pending deposits (not yet minted, in verification queue), pending
redemptions (approved but not yet paid, in payout queue), and expected bank
balance calculated as (token supply plus pending deposits minus pending
redemptions). Compare expected versus actual bank balance—if variance exceeds
$100 or 0.1%, investigate before marking reconciliation complete.

**DALP advantage: Unified registry.** Traditional bridge systems require 3-way
reconciliation across bank, blockchain, and internal database. DALP's on-chain
registry eliminates the internal database as source of truth—blockchain state is
authoritative. This reduces reconciliation points from 3 to 2, simplifying daily
operations.

If balances don't match, investigate unmatched wire transfers (check bank for
wires received but not recorded in platform), missed deposits (verify all wires
have corresponding deposit records), unauthorized mints (review mint transaction
history for unexpected entries), unpaid redemptions (check for redemptions
marked paid but wires never executed), and bank fees (wire fees may reduce
balance without corresponding platform transaction).

**Check the reconciliation variance panel** to see historical variance trends
and identify chronic reconciliation issues requiring process improvements to
eliminate recurring problems.

![Reconciliation report](/images/screenshots/placeholder.svg) _Reconciliation
report showing bank balances, token supply, pending transactions, and variance
analysis_

Perform reconciliation daily before processing new deposits or redemptions.
Conduct monthly comprehensive reconciliation with accounting team review to
validate long-term accuracy and catch accumulated drift.

## Troubleshooting with observability

When issues occur, dashboards provide the diagnostic starting point to identify
root causes quickly without manual investigation across multiple systems.

### Deposit not appearing in pending queue

When an investor reports a wire sent but the deposit doesn't show in the
platform, first **check the deposit receipt panel** in the bridge dashboard for
recent incoming wires. Navigate to **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Deposit History** and
search by investor name or amount, verify the wire completed in the bank account
(check bank portal), and check that the reference code format in the wire memo
matches the expected format.

Common causes include wire in transit (banking system shows pending, not yet
settled—wait 24 hours), wrong reference code (investor omitted or mistyped
reference code in wire memo), amount below minimum (deposit amount less than
configured minimum threshold), or banking API delay (if using automated
matching, API sync may lag—refresh manually). To resolve, manually record the
deposit via **Record Deposit** and link to investor by name if the reference
code is missing, contact the investor to request a top-up or refund the original
wire if below minimum, or force sync via **Refresh Bank Transactions** button if
experiencing API delay.

**Check the deposit matching panel** in observability dashboards to see failed
automatic matches awaiting manual linkage so you can proactively address them.

### Cannot mint tokens for verified deposit

When a verified deposit is in queue but the mint operation fails, click **View
Mint Error** on the failed deposit to review the error message (e.g., "Investor
not eligible", "Insufficient mint capacity"). Navigate to **Identity** &gt;
**Investors** and search the investor's OnchainID, then check compliance status
confirming the KYC claim is present and verified, the investor is not on any
blocklists, and the investor meets token transfer restrictions.

Common causes include missing OnchainID (investor lacks verified OnchainID claim
from issuer), expired KYC (investor's KYC claim expired since deposit
initiated), blocklist (investor added to blocklist due to compliance issue),
mint capacity (token contract has supply cap and cap reached), or role missing
(platform lacks `SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE` on token contract). Resolve by
requesting investor complete KYC verification before minting if OnchainID is
missing, requesting investor renew KYC then retry mint if expired, conducting
manual review for potential refund or compliance resolution if blocklisted,
increasing token supply cap via governance or using a different token if supply
cap reached, or granting `SUPPLY_MANAGEMENT_ROLE` to platform address if role is
missing.

**Check the compliance metrics panel** to see mint rejection reasons and
identify systemic compliance issues requiring policy or process changes.

### Redemption request rejected by platform

When an investor's redemption request is automatically rejected, navigate to
**Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Rejected Redemptions** and view the rejection reason for
the specific request. Common reasons include insufficient token balance, banking
details incomplete, amount below minimum threshold, or token transfers paused
(contract-level emergency pause).

Resolve insufficient balance issues by informing the investor of their current
balance (they spent tokens between request and approval), request complete wire
details (account number, SWIFT) for incomplete banking, inform the investor they
must request a larger redemption or accept queuing until minimum is met for
below-minimum amounts, or wait for the issuer to unpause token transfers for
paused transfers (typically after emergency investigation completes).

**Check the redemption rejection panel** to monitor rejection rate by reason and
identify needs for investor education campaigns addressing common mistakes.

### Wire transfer failed or returned

When a payout is marked as sent but the investor reports no receipt and the bank
returns the wire with an error, check wire confirmation details in the platform,
contact your bank for wire status (reference confirmation number), and review
the bank's error message (typically: invalid account, beneficiary name mismatch,
or SWIFT error).

Common causes include invalid account number (investor provided incorrect
account number or IBAN), name mismatch (beneficiary name on wire does not match
account holder name at receiving bank), bank does not accept international wires
(some banks block SWIFT wires), or insufficient correspondent banking (SWIFT
routing path fails at intermediate bank). When a wire returns, funds return to
your issuer account but the redemption remains burned—contact the investor for
corrected banking details, verify corrected details match KYC records,
re-execute the wire with updated information, and update the redemption record
with the new wire confirmation.

Track returned wires separately in **Fiat Bridge** &gt; **Wire Returns** queue
until successfully re-executed to maintain accurate liability accounting.

**Check the wire execution panel** to monitor wire success rates by currency and
identify problematic correspondent banking routes requiring alternative banking
relationships.

### Reconciliation shows discrepancy

When daily reconciliation shows bank balance does not match expected balance,
review **Reconciliation** &gt; **Variance Detail** and check for unmatched
transactions including unrecorded deposits (wires in bank but not in
platform—search bank statement for unexpected wires), unpaid redemptions
(platform shows paid but wire never executed—check wire confirmation numbers),
bank fees (wire fees deducted from account—add as reconciliation adjustment),
and manual mints (tokens minted outside bridge system via governance action or
emergency mint). Calculate net variance after adjustments—if still discrepant,
escalate to your accounting team for deeper investigation.

Resolve by manually recording unrecorded deposits via **Record Deposit**,
re-executing wires for redemptions incorrectly marked paid, documenting bank
fees by adding bank fee entries to the reconciliation log, and reviewing manual
mints to verify they were authorized and properly recorded.

**CRITICAL: Never ignore discrepancies.** Reconciliation variance indicates
either operational error or potential fraud. Investigate every variance before
marking reconciliation complete to maintain financial integrity.

**Check the reconciliation audit log** to see historical variances, resolution
actions taken, and identify recurring issues requiring process changes to
prevent future occurrences.

### High latency in compliance checks

When mint operations are slow (exceeding 30s per transaction), navigate to
**Observability** &gt; **Compliance Metrics** and check **Compliance Check
Duration** panel. Identify average check time and p99 latency, then review
**Compliance Module Count** to see how many modules are executing per
transaction.

Common causes include too many compliance modules (10 or more modules executing
per transfer), complex module expressions (modules using expensive on-chain
lookups), or RPC gateway congestion (Besu node or ERPC gateway overloaded).
Resolve by reducing module count (consolidate redundant compliance rules),
optimizing module logic (simplify complex expressions, cache repeated lookups),
or scaling RPC capacity (add ERPC replicas or Besu validator nodes).

**Check the compliance check latency panel** in observability dashboards to see
p50/p95/p99 latencies and identify specific slow compliance modules requiring
optimization.

## Best practices

### Deposit processing discipline

Process verified deposits within stated settlement periods (T+0 by end of day,
T+1 by next business day) to maintain investor trust. Reconcile your bank
account before processing each day's deposits to catch missed wires early.
Maintain audit trail of all deposit verifications for compliance
requirements—your auditors will request these records. Use unique reference
codes for every deposit to eliminate manual matching and reduce error rates.
Automate deposit matching via banking API wherever possible to reduce treasury
workload and improve processing speed.

### Redemption processing discipline

Verify banking details against KYC records 100% of the time to prevent
misdirected wires that create operational headaches and compliance risks.
Process redemptions strictly first-in-first-out to ensure fairness and
regulatory compliance. Maintain sufficient bank balance for redemption liability
by monitoring vault reserve ratio continuously. Monitor redemption queue depth
and alert if approaching daily limits that might force queuing. Honor stated
settlement periods rigorously (T+1, T+2, etc.) to preserve reputation and
contractual compliance.

**DALP DvP advantage:** For asset redemptions (bonds, deposits maturing), use
DvP settlement to atomically exchange asset tokens for stablecoin. This
eliminates redemption timing risk—investors receive fiat-backed stablecoin
instantly, then redeem stablecoin to fiat on their own timeline.

### Reconciliation discipline

Perform daily reconciliation before processing new transactions—never skip this
step as compounding errors become exponentially harder to resolve. Investigate
discrepancies immediately rather than accumulating variance across multiple
days. Maintain 3-way reconciliation across bank account, on-chain token supply,
and platform database to catch errors at any integration point. Document all
discrepancy resolutions in audit trail so future investigators understand what
happened. Conduct monthly comprehensive reconciliation review with your
accounting team to validate long-term accuracy.

**Observability-first approach:** Check the reconciliation variance panel every
morning before beginning operations. Sustained variance indicates a systemic
process issue requiring investigation rather than one-time error correction.

### Liquidity management

Monitor vault reserve ratio in observability dashboards targeting 105% or higher
to maintain healthy buffer. Set alerts for reserve ratio under 105% (warning)
and under 100% (critical) to enable proactive response before liquidity crises.
Plan liquidity for redemption waves during large investor exits or market stress
periods when redemptions cluster. Maintain credit line or on-demand liquidity
source for emergencies when immediate capital access is required. Consider
staggered redemption processing if liquidity constrained—process largest
redemptions first to maintain reserve ratio health.

**Check the vault liquidity panel** daily to see available reserves, pending
redemption liabilities, and reserve ratio trend providing visibility into
developing liquidity pressure.

### Security discipline

Implement dual approval for large redemptions exceeding $50,000 to add
accountability and reduce fraud risk. Use separate bank accounts for bridge
operations—never commingle with operational funds as segregation simplifies
reconciliation and audit. Monitor unusual deposit/redemption patterns using
observability alerts for velocity anomalies that might indicate coordinated
manipulation. Screen all transactions against sanctions lists automatically via
compliance modules to avoid regulatory violations. Maintain secure storage of
wire confirmation numbers as audit trail requirement for regulatory review.
Restrict banking detail changes by requiring re-verification if an investor
updates their bank account to prevent account takeover attacks.

## Results

After completing these steps, you will have configured your fiat bridge with
banking details and stablecoin settings establishing the foundation for
operations. You will have chosen an on-ramp provider strategy (direct wires,
third-party, or hybrid) balancing cost versus convenience. You will have
established operational parameters for deposits and redemptions with clear SLAs
investors understand. You will be able to process fiat deposits from
verification through token minting with confidence in compliance. You will
handle redemption requests from approval through wire execution with appropriate
controls. You will have implemented observability-driven monitoring and
reconciliation procedures that catch issues early.

Your fiat bridge now operates as treasury infrastructure connecting traditional
finance with DALP vaults. Daily operations center on observability dashboards
showing deposit queues, redemption liabilities, vault reserves, and
reconciliation status in real time, providing the visibility treasury teams need
to operate confidently at scale.

The observability integration means treasury teams diagnose issues from
dashboards before investors report problems, shifting from reactive firefighting
to proactive operations management. Check the bridge status panel each morning
to verify queue depths, processing times, and reserve ratios are within targets
before beginning daily processing.

## Next steps

- [Issue a stablecoin](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-stablecoin) -
  Deploy platform stablecoin for full control over bridge mechanics
- [Manage investors](/docs/user-guides/operations/manage-investors) - Configure
  KYC workflows synchronized with OnchainID claims
- [Admin settings](/docs/user-guides/operations/admin-settings) - Configure
  roles for treasury operations and compliance teams
- [Observability monitoring](/docs/developer-guides/deployment-ops/observability-monitoring) -
  Deep dive on bridge monitoring dashboards and metrics
- [Compliance certification](/docs/architecture/quality/compliance-certification) -
  Understand compliance requirements for money transmission
- [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) - General troubleshooting
  beyond fiat bridge specific issues
