---
title: Participant management
description:
  Investor management encompasses KYC/AML verification, OnchainID deployment,
  claim issuance, and ongoing compliance monitoring. This guide walks you
  through the complete investor lifecycle from onboarding through ongoing
  surveillance, leveraging the integrated identity-compliance control plane
  built on the DALP architecture. Use the compliance monitoring dashboard to
  track expiring claims and verification metrics in real-time.
pageTitle: How to onboard investors and manage compliance operations
tags: [how-to, KYC, investor-onboarding, compliance-ops]
---

## Before you start

Make sure you have:

- Platform admin or compliance officer role
- Access to KYC/AML verification system (integrated or external)
- Understanding of required investor eligibility claims for your asset types
- Regulatory framework requirements (Reg D, UCITS, MiCA, etc.)

**Time required:** 10-15 minutes per investor for complete onboarding; ongoing
monitoring is continuous

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
  Invite(Invite Investor) --> Register(Investor Self-Registration)
  Register --> KYC(KYC/AML Verification)
  KYC --> Approve{Verification<br/>Result}
  Approve -->|Approved| DeployID(Deploy OnchainID)
  Approve -->|Rejected| Notify(Notify Investor)
  Notify --> KYC
  DeployID --> IssueClaims(Issue Claims)
  IssueClaims --> Monitor(Ongoing Monitoring)
  Monitor --> Renew{Claims<br/>Expiring?}
  Renew -->|Yes| IssueClaims
  Renew -->|No| Monitor

style Invite fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style
Approve fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style DeployID
fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style IssueClaims
fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Monitor
fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`} />

## Understanding the investor lifecycle

The ATK platform manages investor relationships through an integrated
identity-compliance control plane built on the DALP architecture. This control
plane coordinates three core subsystems: identity verification, claim
attestation, and compliance monitoring. Each verified investor receives a
blockchain-based OnchainID contract that carries cryptographically signed claims
proving their eligibility status. These claims gate access to tokenized
assets—no claim, no transfer—ensuring regulatory requirements enforce themselves
at the protocol level rather than through manual intervention.

The identity-compliance control plane tracks investor state transitions
throughout their lifecycle. When an investor first registers, the platform
captures their KYC information and routes it through verification workflows.
Once verified, the system deploys an OnchainID contract and issues eligibility
claims that encode their regulatory status (accredited investor, sophisticated
investor, jurisdiction, etc.). These claims include expiration dates that
automatically trigger renewal workflows. Use the compliance monitoring dashboard
to track expiring claims and set renewal reminders 30 days in advance.

As investors interact with the platform—purchasing tokens, transferring
holdings, or requesting redemptions—the compliance engine validates every
transaction against their active claims. If a claim expires or gets revoked due
to sanctions screening, the investor immediately loses transfer capability. The
observability stack surfaces these enforcement actions in real time through the
compliance metrics panel, showing you exactly which rules blocked which
transactions and why.

## Step 1: Investor registration

Initiate the onboarding process by sending an invitation or providing a
registration URL. The investor creates an account through the self-registration
portal, verifies their email address, and accepts terms and conditions before
proceeding to KYC verification. This multi-step flow prevents fraudulent
registrations while maintaining a smooth user experience.

Navigate to **Participants** &gt; **Entities** in the left sidebar and click
**Invite Investor**. Choose between email invitation (send invite link to
investor email) or direct registration (provide investor with registration URL).
The investor receives the invitation, clicks the registration link, creates an
account with email/password, verifies their email address, accepts terms and
conditions, and lands on the KYC verification portal.

**Email verification is required before proceeding** to prevent fraudulent
registrations. The platform will not advance an investor to KYC verification
until they confirm their email address.

## Step 2: KYC/AML verification

The platform collects identity information based on investor type (individual or
institutional) and routes it through automated or manual verification workflows.
KYC verification metrics show processing times and approval rates in the
observability dashboard, helping you identify bottlenecks and maintain service
levels.

### Data collection requirements

For individual investors, the platform collects full legal name, date of birth,
residential address, nationality and citizenship, government-issued ID
(passport, driver's license, national ID), tax identification number (SSN, EIN,
VAT number), source of funds declaration, and employment and income information
for accredited investor determination.

Institutional investors require legal entity name and type (corporation, LLC,
trust, etc.), registration/incorporation number, registered address, beneficial
owners (25%+ ownership), authorized signatories, corporate documents (articles
of incorporation, certificates), tax identification, and financial statements
for qualified purchaser determination.

### Verification processing

If you have integrated a KYC provider (Onfido, Jumio, Trulioo), the platform
automatically submits collected data and receives verification results. The
service performs document authenticity verification, facial recognition
matching, address verification, and database checks against PEP lists, sanctions
lists, and adverse media. Results return to the platform automatically and
update the investor's status.

For manual verification, navigate to **Participants** &gt; **Entities** &gt;
**Pending KYC** and select an investor from the queue. Review uploaded documents
and information, then perform verification checks: validate document
authenticity, verify address via utility bill or bank statement, screen against
OFAC/EU/UN sanctions lists, perform PEP screening, and conduct adverse media
searches. Mark the verification as **Approved** or **Rejected** based on your
findings.

The platform enforces three verification levels matched to asset risk profiles.
Level 1 (Basic KYC) verifies name, address, and date of birth. Level 2 (Enhanced
KYC) adds document verification and sanctions screening. Level 3 (Enhanced Due
Diligence) includes source of funds verification and enhanced monitoring
requirements. Set verification level requirements per asset type in the
compliance rules configuration.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
  Submit(Investor Submits KYC) --> Route{Verification<br/>Method}
  Route -->|Automated| Provider(KYC Provider API)
  Route -->|Manual| Queue(Review Queue)
  Provider --> DocCheck(Document Verification)
  Provider --> FaceMatch(Facial Recognition)
  Provider --> AddrCheck(Address Verification)
  Provider --> Screen(Database Screening)
  Queue --> Manual(Compliance Officer Review)
  Manual --> ManualCheck(Manual Verification)
  DocCheck --> Results(Return Results)
  FaceMatch --> Results
  AddrCheck --> Results
  Screen --> Results
  ManualCheck --> Results
  Results --> Level{Verification<br/>Level}
  Level -->|Level 1| Basic(Basic KYC)
  Level -->|Level 2| Enhanced(Enhanced KYC)
  Level -->|Level 3| EDD(Enhanced Due Diligence)
  Basic --> Approved(Approved Status)
  Enhanced --> Approved
  EDD --> Approved

style Route fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style
Provider fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Manual
fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Level
fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Approved
fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`} />

## Step 3: OnchainID deployment

After KYC approval, the platform deploys a unique OnchainID contract for the
investor. This contract serves as the blockchain anchor for their identity and
holds all verifiable claims about their compliance status. The deployment
process takes 30-45 seconds and creates an immutable link between the investor's
verified identity and their on-chain presence.

Navigate to the investor details page at **Participants** &gt; **Entities** &gt;
[Investor Name]. Review the KYC status showing **Verified**, then click **Create
OnchainID**. The platform deploys the OnchainID contract (30-45 seconds),
records the contract address in the investor profile, and registers the
OnchainID in the identity registry. The OnchainID contract address appears on
the investor profile once deployment completes.

**Each investor has a unique on-chain identity contract** holding verifiable
claims about their status and compliance. The platform automatically links the
wallet created during registration as the primary key. If an investor needs
multiple wallets—for example, a hot wallet for trading and a cold wallet for
long-term holding—they can connect additional wallets through account settings.
The platform adds each wallet as a management key on the OnchainID, allowing
multiple wallets to share the same identity and claims.

## Step 4: Issue claims

Claims are cryptographically signed credentials that attest to specific aspects
of an investor's eligibility. The platform uses claims as the enforcement
mechanism for compliance rules—every token transfer checks the sender's and
receiver's claims against the asset's eligibility requirements. No matching
claims means no transfer.

### Determining required claims

Different asset types require different claim combinations based on their
regulatory frameworks. Review the specific asset's compliance requirements
before issuing claims to ensure complete coverage. Navigate to **Asset
Management** &gt; [Asset Type] &gt; [Specific Token] and review the
**Compliance** tab showing required claims. Note which claims the investor needs
for eligibility.

| Asset class        | Common required claims                                 | Typical expiration |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| Reg D securities   | KYC_VERIFIED, ACCREDITED_INVESTOR, JURISDICTION        | 1 year             |
| UCITS funds        | KYC_VERIFIED, SOPHISTICATED_INVESTOR, JURISDICTION     | 1 year             |
| Corporate bonds    | KYC_VERIFIED, INVESTOR_TYPE, JURISDICTION              | 2 years            |
| Stablecoins        | KYC_VERIFIED, JURISDICTION                             | No expiration      |
| Real estate tokens | KYC_VERIFIED, ACCREDITED_INVESTOR, QUALIFIED_PURCHASER | 1 year             |

The most common claim types include **KYC_VERIFIED** (basic identity
verification completed), **ACCREDITED_INVESTOR** (accredited investor status
under Reg D), **QUALIFIED_PURCHASER** (qualified purchaser status for 3(c)(7)
funds), **JURISDICTION** (country of residence), **INVESTOR_TYPE** (individual,
institutional, professional), **SOPHISTICATED_INVESTOR** (EU sophisticated
investor status), and **PEP_STATUS** (politically exposed person
classification).

### Claim issuance process

Navigate to **Participants** &gt; **Entities** &gt; [Investor Name] and scroll
to the **Claims** section. Click **Issue Claim** and select the claim type from
the dropdown (for example, ACCREDITED_INVESTOR). The platform automatically
fills the claim topic based on type and generates encoded investor information.
Enter the expiration date (optional, for example, 1 year for accredited status)
and URI linking to supporting documentation (optional).

Click **Sign and Issue Claim**. The platform signs the claim with the platform
claim issuer key, adds the claim to the investor's OnchainID contract, and
records the claim in the compliance database. The claim appears in the
investor's claims list immediately. **The platform is registered as a trusted
claim issuer** in the system—only trusted issuers can issue claims accepted by
compliance modules.

For batch issuance to multiple investors, navigate to **Participants** &gt;
**Entities**, select multiple investors via checkboxes, and click **Batch
Actions** &gt; **Issue Claim**. Select the claim type, configure expiration
(applies to all selected), and click **Issue to All Selected**. The platform
processes the batch issuance and displays results showing successful and failed
claim issuances. This workflow is particularly useful after quarterly
accreditation verification, allowing you to batch-issue renewed
ACCREDITED_INVESTOR claims to all qualifying investors.

### Verification requirements by jurisdiction

Different regulatory frameworks impose varying verification standards before
claims can be issued. Understanding these requirements prevents compliance
violations and ensures your claims withstand regulatory scrutiny.

| Jurisdiction   | Required verification documents                                                           | Processing time   | Renewal frequency |
| -------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
| United States  | Income verification (W-2, tax returns) or net worth statement (bank/brokerage statements) | 3-5 business days | Annual            |
| European Union | Professional certification or portfolio size &gt; €500k or institution confirmation       | 2-4 business days | Annual            |
| United Kingdom | FCA-registered advisor certification or self-certification with income &gt; £100k         | 1-3 business days | Annual            |
| Singapore      | Accredited investor certificate from MAS or net assets &gt; S$2M                          | 5-7 business days | Biennial          |
| Hong Kong      | Professional investor certificate from SFC or portfolio &gt; HK$8M                        | 3-5 business days | Biennial          |

## Step 5: Manage investor eligibility

The compliance engine continuously validates investor eligibility by comparing
active claims against asset requirements. When claims expire or get revoked, the
engine immediately blocks transfers involving that investor. Use the compliance
monitoring dashboard to track eligibility status across your investor base and
identify investors approaching claim expiration.

Check individual investor eligibility by navigating to **Asset Management** &gt;
[Asset Type] &gt; [Token] and reviewing the **Compliance** tab for required
claims. Compare these requirements against the investor's active claims shown in
**Participants** &gt; **Entities** &gt; [Investor]. Any mismatch indicates an
eligibility gap that must be resolved before the investor can hold or transfer
the asset.

When you identify missing claims, first determine whether the investor qualifies
for the claim. If yes, issue the claim following the process in Step 4. If no,
notify the investor of additional requirements they must satisfy. For expired
claims, contact investors 30 days before expiration (the compliance dashboard
shows expiration warnings), request updated documentation for renewal, review
the documentation, and re-issue claims with new expiration dates. If an investor
doesn't renew before expiration, their claim expires and tokens become
non-transferable until renewal.

If an investor fails ongoing monitoring—for example, they appear on a sanctions
list—navigate to their profile, click **Actions** &gt; **Revoke Claim**, select
the claim to revoke (for example, KYC_VERIFIED), enter the revocation reason,
and confirm revocation. The platform removes the claim from the OnchainID, and
the investor immediately loses token transfer capability. Consider freezing the
investor's holdings via **Actions** &gt; **Freeze Account** for serious
compliance violations.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
  Monitor(Continuous Monitoring) --> Check{Claim Status}
  Check -->|Active| Valid(Eligible for Transfers)
  Check -->|Expiring Soon| Warn(Send Renewal Reminder)
  Check -->|Expired| Block(Block Transfers)
  Check -->|Revoked| Freeze(Consider Freezing)
  Warn --> InvestorAction{Investor<br/>Responds?}
  InvestorAction -->|Yes| Review(Review Documentation)
  InvestorAction -->|No| Block
  Review --> Approve{Approve<br/>Renewal?}
  Approve -->|Yes| Renew(Re-issue Claim)
  Approve -->|No| Block
  Renew --> Valid
  Block --> Notify(Notify Investor)
  Freeze --> SAR(File SAR if Required)

style Check fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Valid
fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Warn
fill:#6ba4d4,stroke:#4a7ba8,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Block
fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Freeze
fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`} />

## Step 6: Ongoing compliance monitoring

Continuous surveillance maintains compliance throughout the investor
relationship. The platform performs automated re-screening against sanctions
lists, monitors transaction patterns for suspicious activity, and tracks claim
expiration. The observability stack surfaces all monitoring events through
dedicated dashboards that show real-time compliance status.

Configure automatic re-screening by navigating to **Platform Settings** &gt;
**Compliance** and setting up a periodic re-screening schedule with your KYC
provider. The compliance monitoring dashboard displays alerts for any matches
against sanctions lists. When screening identifies a match, review the match
details from your KYC provider and investigate to determine whether it's a true
positive or false positive. For false positives, document your decision with
notes. For true positives, revoke claims, freeze the account, and file a
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR). For uncertain cases, escalate for enhanced due
diligence.

The transaction monitoring system tracks investor activity patterns using
blockchain data. Review investor transaction history on token details pages and
monitor for unusual transaction sizes, high-frequency trading patterns, and
transactions exceeding configured velocity limits. Investigate suspicious
activity and file SARs per BSA/AML requirements. The compliance metrics panel
shows transaction volume by investor, flagged transactions, and rule violation
patterns.

Configure transaction monitoring thresholds in compliance modules to flag
transactions over $10,000 (Currency Transaction Report requirement), detect when
investors exceed volume limits within defined periods, and identify structuring
or smurfing patterns. The monitoring dashboard displays flagged transactions in
real time, allowing you to investigate and take action immediately.

<Mermaid
  chart={`flowchart TB
  Screening(Automated Screening) --> Sanctions(Sanctions List Check)
  Screening --> PEP(PEP Screening)
  Screening --> Media(Adverse Media Search)
  Sanctions --> Match{Match<br/>Found?}
  PEP --> Match
  Media --> Match
  Match -->|No| Continue(Continue Monitoring)
  Match -->|Yes| Investigate(Investigate Match)
  Investigate --> Classify{True or<br/>False Positive?}
  Classify -->|False| Document(Document Decision)
  Classify -->|True| Enforce(Revoke Claims)
  Classify -->|Uncertain| EDD(Enhanced Due Diligence)
  Enforce --> Freeze(Freeze Account)
  Freeze --> SAR(File SAR)
  EDD --> Classify
  Document --> Continue
  Continue --> Txn(Transaction Monitoring)
  Txn --> Patterns(Pattern Detection)
  Patterns --> Alert{Alert<br/>Triggered?}
  Alert -->|No| Continue
  Alert -->|Yes| Review(Compliance Review)
  Review --> SAR

style Match fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style
Classify fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Enforce
fill:#8571d9,stroke:#654bad,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style Alert
fill:#b661d9,stroke:#8a3fb3,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff style SAR
fill:#5fc9bf,stroke:#3a9d96,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff`} />

## Step 7: Investor communications

Maintain investor relationships through timely communications about claim
expiration, compliance updates, and document requests. Navigate to
**Participants** &gt; **Entities** &gt; [Investor Name] and use your
organization's standard communication channels to send notifications. Common
message types include claim expiration reminders (send 30 days before
expiration), compliance updates (notify of new requirements), and document
requests (request updated documents).

When investors submit information updates, review supporting documentation
before approving changes. For address changes, review the utility bill or other
address verification documents, approve or reject the update in the investor
profile, and re-issue the JURISDICTION claim if the country changed. For
accreditation renewal, review updated financial documentation (submitted
annually), verify income or net worth still meets accredited status thresholds,
and re-issue the ACCREDITED_INVESTOR claim with new expiration. If the investor
no longer qualifies, deny renewal—they will lose access to Reg D offerings until
they requalify.

## Common workflows

### Onboard institutional investor

Institutional investors require additional verification steps to satisfy
beneficial ownership requirements. Collect corporate documentation including
certificate of incorporation, shareholder register, board resolution authorizing
investment, and beneficial ownership disclosure. Verify each beneficial owner
holding 25% or more by performing individual KYC on each ultimate beneficial
owner (UBO) and issuing individual OnchainIDs.

Create an OnchainID for the corporate entity, link UBO OnchainIDs to the
corporate OnchainID, and issue entity-level claims (for example,
QUALIFIED_PURCHASER). Designate authorized signatories for the corporate wallet.
**AML regulations require verification of all natural persons with 25% or more
ownership**—skipping UBO verification creates regulatory risk.

### Handle investor offboarding

Remove investors from the platform only after ensuring they hold zero token
balances across all assets. Navigate to the investor profile, click **Actions**
&gt; **Offboard Investor**, and confirm the investor has redeemed or transferred
all holdings. Revoke all claims, deactivate the investor account, archive
investor records per your data retention policy (typically 5-7 years), and
notify the investor of account closure. **Maintain KYC records and transaction
history per regulatory requirements** even after offboarding—most jurisdictions
require 5-7 years retention.

### Upgrade investor accreditation

When investors submit documentation for higher qualification levels—income
verification for accredited investor, net worth documentation for qualified
purchaser, or professional certification for sophisticated investor—review the
documentation to confirm it meets SEC or other regulatory standards. Issue the
additional claim (for example, QUALIFIED_PURCHASER), which grants the investor
access to additional asset offerings. Update the investor tier in your records.
Common progression follows: Basic → Accredited → Qualified Purchaser.

## Best practices

Apply a risk-based approach to KYC verification by requiring higher verification
levels for higher investment amounts. Leverage automated KYC providers for
efficiency and consistency across your investor base. Perform enhanced due
diligence on high-risk investors including politically exposed persons and
investors from high-risk jurisdictions. Refresh KYC annually or when material
changes occur, and maintain a detailed audit trail of all verification
decisions.

For claim management, set expiration dates on time-sensitive claims
(accreditation, jurisdiction) to enforce periodic reverification. Implement a
reminder system that alerts investors 30 days before claim expiration.
Batch-renew claims during annual refresh cycles to reduce operational overhead.
Monitor claim usage and revoke unused claims to maintain data hygiene. Use claim
versioning to track renewals and updates over time.

Ongoing monitoring requires regular screening against sanctions lists—OFAC
updates lists frequently, so daily screening is recommended for high-risk
portfolios. Review PEP lists quarterly, conduct adverse media searches
semi-annually, and monitor transaction patterns continuously. Escalate all
alerts to compliance leadership within 24 hours to ensure rapid response.

Maintain regulatory compliance by filing Currency Transaction Reports (CTRs) for
transactions over $10,000 within 15 days, filing Suspicious Activity Reports
(SARs) within 30 days of detection, maintaining an independent compliance audit
trail, updating procedures for regulatory changes, and training compliance staff
quarterly.

## Troubleshooting

**OnchainID deployment fails:** Check that the platform has sufficient gas for
deployment, verify the investor wallet address is valid, ensure the investor
doesn't already have an OnchainID, and retry deployment after 30 seconds if
network congestion caused the failure.

**Claim issuance reverts:** Verify the investor has an OnchainID deployed, check
that the claim issuer has CLAIM_ISSUER_ROLE, ensure the claim topic exists in
the topic registry, and confirm the claim data format is correct (bytes format).

**Investor cannot transfer tokens despite claims:** Verify all required claims
are present (not just some), check claim expiration dates (expired claims are
invalid), ensure the claim issuer is a trusted issuer for the token, and review
the token compliance module for additional restrictions.

**KYC verification stuck in pending:** Check KYC provider API connection status,
review submitted documents for quality (blurry images fail automated
verification), verify the investor completed all required fields, and manually
approve if automated verification is unavailable.

For additional help, see [Troubleshooting](/docs/user-guides/troubleshooting) or
contact platform support with specific error details.

## Next steps

- **Asset issuance** - Review asset-specific guides for required claims:
  - [Issue a bond](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-bond)
  - [Issue equity](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-equity)
  - [Issue a fund](/docs/user-guides/asset-issuance/issue-fund)
- **Platform settings** - Configure system-wide compliance in
  [Admin settings](/docs/user-guides/operations/admin-settings)
